 How Does Hong Kong Sign Language (HKSL) Express Spatial Concepts1AbstractSpatial concepts are widely exist in our daily life. There are different ways of expressing spatial concepts in natural languages, ranging from the use of a whole sentence to specific linguistic phenomena: local cases, adopositions, spatial nominal. In contrast, signed languages tend to encode spatial concepts via classifier constructions (Emmorey, 2003). Learning to represent and reason about space is crucial to our cognitive development. This paper aims to illustrate how does HKSL express spatial concepts both by deaf adults and deaf children. Two adults, two deaf children of deaf parents (DD) and four deaf children of hearing parents (DH) were participated in my experiment of retelling picture book “Frog, where are you?” in HKSL. The results show that different group of signers show different performance both on static and dynamic situation. The main strategy is using classifier constructions, however, DD prefer to use CL constructions of two hands instead of using body as part of CL predicates; some DH choose to use spatial nominal such as INSIDE to express spatial concepts. Besides, adult’s signing are much more iconic and complex than both DD and DH in expressing spatial concepts.Introductionexpress spatial concepts via specific linguistic items (such as in, on, next to...). But some spatial concepts are more often expressed in natural languages. Specifically, natural languages tend to express spatial concepts like location and motion of referents.There are different ways of expressing spatial concepts in natural languages, ranging from the use of a whole sentence to specific linguistic phenomena: local cases, adopositions, spatial nominal (See Section 2 for details). In contrast, signed languages tend to encode spatial concepts via signing space and complex predicates, often referred to as classifier constructions (Emmorey 2003). In these constructions, a handshape morpheme represents an object of a specific type, and the location and movement of the hands in signing space iconically depict spatial relations and object motion.Learning to represent and reason about space is crucial to our cognitive development. A recent research (Genter et al 2013) find that some deaf children using homesigns do not have gestures to convey spatial concepts which lead to their poor performance on a spatial mapping task. The results prove the absence of spatial language thus went hand-in-hand with poor performance on the spatial cognitive task. Their research reminds us the importance of spatial language in HKSL and deaf children’s cognition. Thus this paper aims to illustrate how HKSL express spatial concepts both by deaf adults and deaf children.Zhang XiaoqianFudan University / 220 Handan Rd., Yangpu District, ShanghaiSpatial concepts are one of the elements of spatial thinking. When spatial thinking occurs, spatial concepts support spatial representations and spatial reasoning by functioning as a framework for identifying, describing and analyzing various spatial events and objects. (Golledge et al 2007) For example, size and shape of an object, the relative relation of two referents, the motion events of an object and so forth. Natural languages may2 2.1Literature review Spatial conceptsamanda.zxq@qq.comNatural languages express spatial concepts via specific linguistic items. But some spatial concepts are more often expressed in natural languages.
 Specifically, natural languages tend to express spatial concepts like location and motion of referents. For example, how would you describe the following three pictures in Figure 1.vary a lot on thinking about space, for example, spatial categorization. English speakers use in to denote the relationships of “an football IN a box” but use on to refer to relationship of “an notebook ON a table” or “a clock ON the wall”. In contrast, other languages show very different groupings of the same physical spatial relationships: Spanish uses EN for all spatial relations while Dutch uses three separate prepositions (OP, AAN, IN) (Bowerman,1996).By investigating the relationship between language and spatial concepts, previous studies can be organized along a continuum, with one end anchored by researchers focusing on the hypothesis that no language influence in the structure of spatial concepts (Papafragou, Massey, & Gleitman, 2002, 2006) and the other end anchored by researchers who believe it is language creates the difference of how people view space ( Malt, Sloman, & Gennari, 2001, 2003 ). Toward the middle of the continuum is research that examines the interface. Typically, focus on that language may have an impact on how people structure spatial concepts, however, other factors such as culture and environment should also be taken into consideration. In sum, no consensus is reached in the previous studies. We still don’t know to what degree language may be involved in the structure of spatial concepts. However, sign language is considered as a visual and iconic language, do people use sign language structure spatial concepts different from people who use spoken language? The following section focuses on how sign language expresses spatial concepts in the previous studies.2.3 Sign language and spatial conceptsSigned languages differ from spoken language in the modalities. The interesting part of signed languages is that they use a lot of the physical space in expressing grammatical information, hence known as spatial language. The actual space where the articulations of signs take place is called “signing space” or “sign space”, and generally it is considered to be constrained to the horizontal and the frontal plane in front of the signer’s torso .Sign language convey spatial information using so-called classifier constructions in which spatial relations are expressed by where the hands are placed in the signing space or in the relationship to the body (e.g. Supalla 1982; Engberg - Pedersen   Picture 1Figure 1. Basic spatial concepts in spoken languagesWe make sentences like “ There is a rabbit in the cage.” “ The rabbit’s head is struck in the jar.” “An eagle is chasing after the rabbit.” From these sentences, we can easily get some basic spatial concepts such as “in”, “be struck at”, “chasing after”. However, we also have some other spatial concepts from the above pictures. For example, we could see the size and shape of the cage in picture 1; To what extent the rabbit’s head struck at the jar, loosely or tightly in picture 2; What is the distance between eagle and the rabbit, very close or quite far away in picture 3. Spatial concepts may include more aspects than we thought. The reason why we overlook them is we normally don’t express them in natural languages. It becomes very strange in English if we say “There is a rabbit in a three-inch high, two-inch wide cage.” or “ Eagle is chasing the rabbit in a distance of one meter.” In English, we seems to pay more attention on the relative relationship between the entities or the motion events happened. It is quite natural that we overlook the size and shape of the object, the degree of tightness, the real distance between the objects, and so forth.2.2 Natural languages and Spatial conceptsThere is a prevalent misunderstanding which stem from the study of European languages and can be found in many handbooks, spatial concepts are encoded primarily in one word class, e.g. prepositions or postpositions. In fact, we have the following kinds of form-class involved in the coding of spatial concepts: (1) Local cases, (2) Adpositions, (3) Spatial nominals. most languages use a combination of these strategies, for example by applying case to adpositions, or adpositions to spatial nominals, or case to spatial nominals.Despite grammatical differences, previous researchers also find that different languages canpicture 2picture 3
 1993). In these constructions, a handshape morpheme represents an object of a specific type (e.g., long and thin; vehicle), and the location and movement of the hands in signing space iconically depict spatial relations and object motion.Most researchers who study classifier constructions in expressing spatial concepts focus on signers’ potential for iconically encoding spatial information related to referent location and orientation. For example, Talmy (2003) assumes a high degree of iconicity, and emphasizes the ability to make very fine and nuanced spatial distinctions in the visual-spatial modality, as compared to the more restricted spatial schemas available to spoken languages. Liddell (1980), on the other hand, notes that hand orientation in a classifier predicate can be “neutral” in the sense of indicating only the nature of the spatial relationship (e.g. The cat is on the fence), without specifying the cat's particular orientation in relation to the fence. Encoding the ground object before the figure object is another point stated widely in the literature that mentions classifier constructions in spatial description (e.g. Liddell 1980; Supalla 1990 for ASL; Engberg- Pedersen 1993, 1994 for DSL;)Previous studies gave us a generally view about how spatial concepts are expressed in sign languages. However, my research aims to discuss more details about it. For example, how static situation (in, on, at) and dynamic situation (downward, upward, outward motions...) are expressed through signing space. Is it true that using classifier constructions is the only way?2.4 Research questionsLearning to represent and reason about space is crucial to children’s cognitive development. A recent research (Dedre Genter et al, 2013) find that some deaf children using homesigns do not have gestures to convey spatial concepts which lead to their poor performance on a spatial mapping task. The results prove the absence of spatial language thus went hand-in-hand with poor performance on the spatial cognitive task. Their research reminds me the importance of spatial language in HKSL and deaf children’s cognition. Thus my paper aims to illustrate how does HKSL express spatial concepts from a grammatical perspective and discuss if HKSL narratives can show some evidence in thinking about the relation betweenlanguage and spatial cognition. In particular, I will address the following research questions.1. How does HKSL express spatial concepts, that is how does it use signing space to describe spatial concepts?2. Is there any uniqueness of sign language in expressing spatial concepts? For example, can sign language express any spatial concepts which are not usually seen in spoken language?3. Sign language is considered as a visual and iconic language, previous studies find that spatial concepts can be expressed very iconically. However, is it easy for children to express them as well as adults do?3 MethodSix deaf children (2 females and 4 males), ranging from 11;4 to 14;2 (mean = 12.3 years, SD = 1 year), participated in this study. All the deaf children were congenitally or prelingually deaf. Two children were severely deaf (71 - 90 db); the left four children were profoundly deaf (91 db + ). Two had cochlear implants; Three had hearing aids; one had one ear with hearing aid and the other ear with cochlear implant. Two of the six children are native signers of HKSL. They are all bimodal bilinguals exposed to HKSL and Cantonese. Two adults (one male and one female; both at their 30s) who worked at the center for sign linguistics and deaf studies also participated in the study. They were both graduated from the Hong Kong School for Deaf and native signers of HKSL. They were chosen as the control group to compare with the group of deaf children.The material of the study is a wordless picture book “Frog, Where Are You?” (Mayer, 1969). I choose it as my research material because of the abundant spatial concepts involved in this short story.The narrative was recorded on two video cameras. One is positioned directly to record the child; another is positioned to record the lateral view. Two testers participated in the narrative recording, tester A gave some instructions to deaf child while tester B was responsible for recording with cameras. Both deaf children and deaf adults were told to read the picture book very carefully and try their best to memorize the contents of the story. Once they start retelling the story in HKSL, the picture book was not present.Trained deaf and
 hearing signers transcribed the signed narratives and checked by the native signer of HKSL.4 ResultsIn procedure of data coding, we listed 24 spatial relation contained utterances that signers may mention in their signing narratives. Among these 24 utterances, 10 are related to static station (on, in, next to...) while 14 are dealing with dynamic situation (downward, upward, outward motions...). The result showed that adults had a tendency to describe more spatial related informations (mean = 18, 75% of the overall spatial relation contained utterances) than children (mean= 10, 41.7% of the overall spatial relation contained utterances). In the following parts, I will give a description on how adults and children describe spatial concepts for both static and dynamic situation.4.1 The adult formsIn order to discuss the standard form of how does HKSL express spatial concepts and contrast the child form with the adult target, we first describe two adults frog story narratives, concentrating on the signers’ different strategies of encoding spatial concepts for both static and dynamic situation.Static situation: Spatial relation in static situation includes on, in, next to and behind in this narrative material. Among them the first two concepts mentioned by both adults while next to only by A1. behind was not mentioned in adults’ data. Most of spatial concepts are expressed by classifier constructions of two hands, body as part of classifier predicates are also found in adults’ narrative data. These two strategies will be discussed in the following paragraphs.Strategy 1: Classifier constructions of two hands. Sign language tends to convey spatial information using classifier constructions (e.g. Supalla 1982; Engberg - Pedersen 1993). In these constructions, a handshape morpheme represents an object of a specific type (e.g., long and thin; vehicle), and the location and movement of the hands in signing space iconically depict spatial relations and object motion. Let me illustrate this observation with HKSL adult data.Spatial concept on is contained in six utterances: (1) The boy and the dog sleep on bed. (2) The dog stands on the windowsill. (3) The boy stands on the rock. (4) The boy lies on deer’s head. (5) A frogsits on boy’s hand. (6) Frogs in a line on tree trunk. Figure in all six utterances are animate beings thus signers choose to use Y handshape for semantic classifier. Size and shape classifiers for bed, windowsill, rock, trunk and sematic classifiers for boy and deer are used to refer to Ground. Dominant hand is usually responsible for Figure while non-dominant hand for Ground. The relation between two hands is one on the top of another with a contact. Figure 2 is an example for “The boy lies on deer’s head.” The orientation of classifier handshape also conveys meaning in this example. The different orientation of two hands represents for a deer stands and a boy lies.Figure 2. Illustration of spatial concept on in “The boy lies on deer’s head.”Spatial concept in only discussed by one utterance “The frog is in the jar”. However, all participants have mentioned this concept. Signers first introduce Figure (frog) and Ground (jar), then non-dominant hand with a C handshape for jar keep static while dominant hand with bend B handshape for frog move downward. Two hands are holding close to each other without contact. Figure 3 is the illustration of the whole utterance.     JAR FROGFigure 3. Illustration of spatial concept in in “The frog   DOGis in the jar.”BOY “The boy and dog sit next to each other.”Figure 4. Illustration of spatial concept next to in “The boy and dog sit next to each other.”Spatial concept next to discussed in the utterance “The boy and the dog sit next to each other.” only by one signer. He first introduced two referentsFROG IN JAR
 boy and dog, then next to is expressed by putting two hands with classifier handshape for entities side by side with a short distance as in Figure 4.Strategy 2: Body as part of the classifier predicates. When Figure or Ground refers to animate beings, signers may choose to use his or her own body as one of the components of the classifier predicates. We have discussed that spatial concept on in the utterance “The boy lies on deer’s head.” can be expressed by classifier construction of two hands. In this utterance, Ground refers to deer’s head. If signer involves his or her own body, then a Y handshape for boy will locate directly on signer’s head. Here signer shifts her role to a deer, and regards her head as deer’s head as in Figure 5.DEER some animate being lies on deer’s head BOY Figure 5. Illustration of body involvement in “The boylies on deer’s head.”Above all we can get the conclusion that spatialconcepts in static situations are expressed by where the hands are placed in the signing space or in the relationship to the body. In the following section, a description of how dynamic spatial concepts are expressed in HKSL will be made on the diversity of a fall (downward motion), a rise (upward motion), an emergence (outward motion) and a chase (running after).Dynamic situation: Fourteen utterances are dealing with dynamic situation (downward, upward, outward motions...). As we already have the knowledge spatial concepts are iconically expressed by where the hands are placed in the signing space or in the relationship to the body. It becomes obvious that dynamic situation will largely depends on the location and movement of two hands in signing space. For example, if we want to express “The boy falls down from the tree.”, we use non-dominant hand with a tree classifier and dominant hand with a Y handshape for boy. The location is at the higher neutral space, then non-dominant hand keep static while dominant hand with a downward movement to the lower neutral space. As spatial concepts in dynamic situation mainly depend on the movement, thus all falls, rises are expected to be largely thesame. However, my research data gives some opposite view and I take spatial concept fall as example to explain the diversity of its expressions.In the picture Frog, Where Are You? There are six fall episodes: (1) The fall of a dog from a window sill to the ground. (2) The fall of a beehive from a tree to the ground. (3) A boy’s fall from a tree to the ground. (4) The boy’s fall from the top of a rock onto a deer’s head. (5) The boy’s fall from the deer’s head into a pond. (6) The fall of the dog from a cliff into the pond.In English, all these six falls are described using a phrase “from one place to another”. Sometimes we can also omit the starting and ending points. The limitation is we can not see more details of a fall, this limation is well solved in sign language.Horizontal fall versus vertical fall. Among these six falls, episode (5) is different from others as it is a horizontal fall (see Appendix 1, picture 14 and 15) while others are vertical falls. We cannot distinguish them in spoken language but signers make a big contrast of these two types of falls. As illustrated in Figure 6, horizontal fall is expressed by a rightward movement horizontally while vertical fall is conveyed through a downward movement vertically.Horizontal fall“The boy falls from the rock to deer’s head.”Vertical fall“The boy falls from tree branch.”Figure 6. Illustration of difference between horizontal fall and vertical fall.Path of a fall: fall from the deer’s head versus fall from a cliff. Another difference between spoken narratives and our signing data is that sign language can express two falls simultaneously. For example in fall episode (5) and (6), spoken language use two clauses “The boy falls from the deer’s head into a pond.” and “The dog falls from a       
 cliff into the pond.” to complete the meaning while sign language can express them simultaneously with one hand represents for a dog’s fall and the other hand stands for the boy’s fall. The boy’s fall is from the head of the deer while the dog’s fall is from the ground. Thus the starting point of the boy is higher than the dog as presented in Figure 7. Sign languages can express the path of a fall very iconically, other examples can be found such as the path of boy’s fall from tree to the ground is longer than the path of falling from rock to deer’s head.Figure 7. Illustration of simultaneous use of two hands to stand for two falls.Fall from versus fall to. In English, sometimes we omit one of the starting and ending points which is also the same in signing narratives. How do signers distinguish “fall from” and “fall to”? “Fall from” usually starts with two hands both at the higher neutral space, non-dominant hand for Ground keep static while dominant hand for figure with a curved movement to the bottom right (or left). A direct downward movement is also accepted but not as common as a curved movement. “Fall to” usually starts with non-dominant hand for Ground at the lower neutral space while dominant hand for Figure moves from up right (or left) to the same place with non-dominant hand. A direct downward movement is also accepted similar to what we have observed in “Fall from”. Examples of fall from and fall to are illustrated in Figure 8.Fall to: The dog falls with a jar on his head to the ground.Fall from: The dog fall from the windowsill.Figure 8. Illustration of difference between fall from and fall to.Besides the above complexities of a fall in HKSL, other elements are also found, for example, some signers will mouthing the sound “bang” of things falling down onto the ground. Others may also involve their own body into signing when Figure or Ground refers to an animate being. It is far more complex and iconic than we thought to describe a spatial concept fall in HKSL. Similar to fall, other spatial concepts in dynamic situation also have some variations from a citation form, I will not list them one by one as their using is more or less the same with fall.In this section, we have discussed about how do spatial concepts expressed by adults in both static and dynamic situation, the main strategy is using classifier constructions. In the following section, I will talk about the child form of expressing spatial concepts and then a comparison on the different performance between children and adults will be made.4.2 The child formsFrom previous discussion, we know that considering the quantity of spatial concepts contained in signing narratives, mean of adults is almost twice of children. It seems that children are not good at expressing spatial concepts as adults do. However, it becomes easy to understand the quantity contrast if length of signing is also counted as a factor. Mean length of adults’ signing is 4 minutes 35 seconds while children’s signing is only half of adults’ (2 minutes and 15 seconds). This result shows that the overall narrative skills of children is lower than adults which is true in reality. The following paragraphs will focus on two groups of deaf children (DD and DH) in encoding spatial concepts.Deaf children of deaf parents (DD): Two participants were born with deaf parents and were native signers of HKSL. Both of them have been exposed to HKSL for more than ten years. They could produce target-like CL constructions as adults did.In Static situation, DD first introduce the Figure and the Ground, then followed by using classifier constructions of two hands to indicate the relative relation between two referents and express spatial concepts. Their performance is same to the adult form. The following Figure 9 is an example of the       
 DD form expressing spatial concept in in the utterance “There is a frog in the jar.”FROG JAR FROG IN JAR Figure 9. Illustration of the DD form of expressingspatial concept inin the utterance “There is a frog in the jar.”A contrast between the adult form and DD form in expressing spatial concepts in static situation is that deaf children of deaf parents are less likely to use body as part of classifier predicates. In the overall six spatial concepts contained utterances of static situation they have expressed, none of the utterances using body as part of classifier predicates.Spatial concepts in dynamic situations largely depend on the location and movement of two hands in signing space. In the previous discussion, we pointed out that a spatial concept fall could be very complex and iconic in adults’ signing. In contrast, even DD with more than ten years of exposure of HKSL could not produce as adults’ do. First of all, they could not distinguish a horizontal fall from a vertical fall. As we have discussed in the previous section, adults could distinguish a horizontal fall from a vertical fall by iconically changing the direction of movement. Horizontal fall is expressed by a rightward movement horizontally while vertical fall is conveyed through a downward movement vertically. DD do not have this kind of awareness, they express most falls by using a downward movement. The second difference is the path of a fall could be very detailed and iconic in the adult form while not that obvious in the DD form. In the dynamic situation describing simultaneity of two falls: “The boy falls from the deer’s head into a pond.” and “The dog falls from a cliff into the pond.” The adult form is using two hands simultaneously with one hand represents for a dog’s fall and the other hand stands for the boy’s fall. As the boy’s fall is from the head of the deer while the dog’s fall is from the ground. The starting point of the boy is higher than the dog. In contrast, both two DD ignored the simultaneity of two falls, they introduced the two falls separately with two independent clauses.Besides, the different starting point of two falls are also ignored by DD as presented in Figure 10.      MALEDOGFigure 10. Illustration of the DD form in expressing twofallsDeaf children of hearing parents (DH): Fourparticipants are deaf children of hearing parents, two of them were born in HK and the other two were born in mainland and moved to HK at their age of two. They all have been exposed to HKSL for more than seven years.In static situation, very similar to the adult form, children also use classifier constructions as the most common strategy to express spatial concepts. Besides in, on, next to, spatial concept behind which does not appear in adults’ and DD’s signing is also found in the DH data. Behind is discussed in the utterance “The deer is behind the rock.” She first introduced the referent deer then behind is expressed by the classifier handshape for rock far away from the body and the classifier for deer close to the body, two hands are in a horizontal line as in Figure 11.DEER DEER BEHIND ROCK Figure 11. Illustration of spatial concept behindin “The deer is behind the rock.”The DH form is a little different from the adult form and DD form as adults and DD willFALLS   FALLS  
 introduce both Figure and Ground first and followed by the relative relation of the two objects. However, DH may omit Ground or change the order of classifier constructions and referents. In the above Figure 4.11, when she express the spatial concept behind, she only introduce the Figure deer and followed by the a classifier construction meaning the deer is behind something. According to the whole narrative, we can infer the object is rock. Another example is in the utterance “ The boy falls down from the deer’s head.”, some children may first express something is falling down and then describe the referent is a boy.When Figure or Ground refers to animate beings, adults may choose to use his or her own body as one of the components of the classifier predicates which has not been found in the DD data. DH also use the same strategy with adults. In the utterance “The dog’s head stuck at the mouth of the jar”. The dog’s head is considered as Figure while jar is the Ground. If body is involved, signer will take his or her own head as dog’s head and using two hands as classifier for jar. Two hands are held at the height of head to imply that dog’s head stuck at the mouth of the jar as presented in Figure 12.Figure 12. Illustration of body involvement in“The dog’s head stuck at the mouth of the jar”Different from adults and DD, DH may use spatial nominals to indicate spatial concepts. Children tend to use 1 handshape and an inward movement to indicate the meaning “inside”. For example the utterance “The frog is in the jar.” in Figure 13, the word order of the signing is: JAR IX INSIDE HAVE FROG ONE which is similar to Chinese syntax. The standard form for expressing this utterance in Chinese is as followed:(1)瓶子 裏面 有 一 只 青蛙。 Bottle inside have one classifier frog “There is a frog in the jar.”Instead of using the relative relations of two hands, he uses a spatial nominal INSIDE to express the spatial concept in. This strategy is also accepted in HKSL, however, adults prefer to use classifier constructions instead of spatial nominals.This contrast may due to complexity of using classifier constructions, as we know that classifier constructions are the hardest part in learning sign language as each morpheme in the classifier construction conveys meaning, children may prefer a easier way to express their thoughts thus they prefer to use a spatial nominal INSIDE to indicate the relation between the frog and the jar. Use of spatial nominal is usually found in expressing spatial concept in but rarely in other situations.   JAR IXHA VEFigure 13. Illustration of using spatial nominal in“There is a frog in the jar.”The DH form is quite similar to the DD form indynamic situation. Their signings of expressing spatial concepts are also not as iconic and detailed as adults’ did.4.3 Comparison: adult, DD & DHFrom the above discussion, we know that there are some similarities and differences between three groups: adult, DD and DH (see Table 1 for details). In static situation, adults use two ways to express spatial concepts: CL constructions of two hands and body as part of CL predicates; DD only use one way that is CL constructions of two hands; DH have more options in expressing spatial concepts including: CL constructions of two hands, body as part of CL predicates and use of spatial nominals. In dynamic situation, spatial concepts largely depend on the location and movement of two hands in signing space. However, the iconic and complex degree of the adult form is much higher than DD and DH. Adults can easily divided a spatial concept fall into horizontal fall and vertical fall as well as distinguish the path of a fall from higher starting point from lower starting point.INSIDE  FROG 
   AdultsStatic situationCL constructions of two hands Body as part of CL predicatesDynamic situationIconic and complex degree is highIconic and complex degree is lower than the adult form Iconic and complex degree is lower than the adult formadults, DD & DH ofshape of the hole is circular and then describe the size of it is big.(see Figure 14)    DD CL constructions of two handsDH CL constructions of two handsBody as part of CL predicates Use of spatial nominalsTable 1. A comparison on expressing spatial conceptsDiscussioncircular+CL_sass:holeFigure 14. Illustration of size and shape related spatialconceptsin “There is a hole on the ground.”Another example is when child try to describe there is a frog in the jar. Speakers will focus on the relative relation between the jar and the frog. But signers will try to describe the jar very clearly. He will first introduce the shape of the jar to us. Generally speaking, it is a circular jar, but more like a vase shape if we describe it further. (see Figure 15)circular+CL_sass:jarshape+CL_sass:vaseFigure 15. Illustration of size and shape related spatial concepts in “ There is a frog in the jar.”In the above examples, signers not only use size and shape classifier to express an object, but also they try to further describe the size and shape of an object. This phenomenon gives us the impression that deaf children using sign language tend to describe more spatial concepts related to size and shape than natural language did (at least English, Cantonese and mandarin). As we have discussed in the literature part, the relationship between language and spatial concepts is quite an controversial topic in previous studies. However, our signing data shows that signing participants show a tendency of expressing more size and shape concepts. This gives us a new way of thinking the relation between language and spatial concepts. If 5in static and dynamic situation.Back to the research questions we pointed out in the literature review: How does HKSL express spatial concepts? Is there any uniqueness of sign language in expressing spatial concepts? Is it easy for children to express them as well as adults do? The results show that different group of signers show different performance both on static and dynamic situation. The main strategy is using classifier constructions, however, DD prefer to use CL constructions of two hands instead of using body as part of CL predicates; some DH choose to use spatial nominal such as INSIDE to express spatial concepts. Considering the degree of iconicity, adult’s signing are much more detailed and complex than both DD and DH in expressing spatial concepts.Besides thinking about how does HKSL express spatial concepts from a grammatical perspective, we could also rethinking about the relationship between spatial concepts and spatial language form a cognitive perspective.Whenever signers describe an object, a size and shape classifier is used to specify the object. However, the high frequency of using size and shape classifier may lead to the result that signers using sign language will pay more attention on the size and shape of an object. For example, in the utterance “There is a hole on the ground.” In Cantonese and mandarin, we seldom specify the details of the hole. In contrast, signers will use C handshape to indicate that thebig+CL_sass:hole      
 people use sign language and spoken language show a different performance on expressing spatial concepts, then the importance of language in relation to spatial concepts can not be ignored. The result supports that the language we use may influence how we think about spatial concepts.6 ConclusionBased on previous studies, spatial concepts are largely expressed via a complex predicates called classifier predicates in signed languages (Emmorey 2003). This paper aims to discuss more details about it. For example, how static situation (in,on, at) and dynamic situation (downward, upward, outward motions...) are expressed through signing space. Through the above discussion, we got the conclusion that in static situation, adults use two ways to express spatial concepts: CL constructions of two hands and body as part of CL predicates; DD only use one way that is CL constructions of two hands; DH have more options in expressing spatial concepts including: CL constructions of two hands, body as part of CL predicates and use of spatial nominals. In dynamic situation, spatial concepts largely depend on the location and movement of two hands in signing space. However, the iconic and complex degree of the adult form is much higher than both DD and DH.Our signing data also shows that signing participants have a tendency of expressing more size and shape spatial concepts. This gives us a new way of thinking the relation between language and spatial concepts. If people use sign language and spoken language show a different performance on expressing spatial concepts, then the importance of language in relation to spatial concepts can not be ignored. The result supports that the language we use may influence how we think about spatial concepts.ReferencesBowerman, M. (1996). Learning how to structure space for language: A crosslinguistic perspective. In P. Bloom, M. Peterson, L. Nadel, & M. Garrett (Eds.), Language and space (pp. 385-436). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Dedre Genter, Asli Özyürek, ÖgeGürcanli, & Susan Goldin-Meadow (2013). Spatial language facilitates spatial cognition: Evidence from children who lack language input. Cognition, 127, 318–330Emmorey, K. & M. Herzig (2003). “Categorical versus gradient properties of classifier constructions in ASL.” InK. Emmorey (ed.), Perspectives on classifier constructions in signed languages. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Levinson, S. C. (2003). Space in language and cognition: Explorations in cognitive diversity. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Liddell, Scott. 1990. Four Functions of a Locus: Reexamining the Structure of Space in ASL. In C. Lucas, ed. Sign Language Research: Theoretical Issues, 176-198. Washington D.C.: Gallaudet University PressLiddell, Scott.1995. Real, Surrogate and Token Space: Grammatical Consequences in ASL. In Emmorey, Karen & Reilly, Judy. S. eds. Language, Gesture, and Space, 19-41. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum AssociatesMalt, B. C., Sloman, S. A., & Gennari, S. P. (2001). Universality and language specificity in object naming. Journal of Memory and Language, 49, 20-42.Malt, B. C., Sloman, S. A., & Gennari, S. P. (2003). Speaking versus thinking about objects and actions. In D. Gentner & S. Goldin-Meadow (Eds.), Language in mind: advances in the study of language and thought (pp. 81- 111). Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.Papafragou, A., Massey, C., & Gleitman, L. (2002). Shake, rattle, ‘n’ roll: the representation of motion in language and cognition. Cognition, 84, 189-219.Papafragou, A., Massey, C., & Gleitman, L. (2006). When English proposes what Greek presupposes: The cross-linguistic encoding of motion events. Cognition, 98, B75-87.