Asymmetries in Scrambling and Distinctness of CopiesAbstractThis paper is an investigation of LF-copies created by scrambling in the context of FNQ-constructions. It demonstrates that movement leaves a copy at LF only when it targets a position within the next search space; it does not leave an LF copy if move- ment takes place too close within a single domain of search space. By characterizing this in terms of “Distinctness of Copies,” this paper provides a prin- cipled account to all structural variations that have posed substantial problems in previous approaches.1 IntroductionIt has been widely noted that the extraction of different arguments can be subject to different restrictions. One such case involves the distribution of floating numeral quantifiers (FNQs) in Japanese and Korean.1 In these languages, extraction of objects licenses an associated FNQ, while that of subjects does not (Kuroda, 1980; Sai- to, 1985; Ko, 2007; Miyagawa and Arikawa, 2007; Miyagawa 2013; J. Kim, 2013, among many others). Although this understanding about the subject-object asymmetry is well-established in the literature, it is not always easy to reach a conclusion about the grammatical- ity of the sentences that contain subject FNQs. We also find that the Locality approach (Saito, 1985; Miyagawa, 1989; 2010; Miyagawa and Arikawa, 2007, etc.), the most compelling account for this exciting but bewilder- ing phenomenon, is not entirely acceptable because of its shortcomings in terms of either empirical coverage or the explanatory power essential for theories in modern lin-1 Sportiche’s (1988) proposal for a theory of floating quantifiers relies on two independently motivated assumptions: (i) a quantifi- er and its associate NP are generated under a single constituent, and (ii) the NP moves up for a number of reasons while stranding the quantifier in its base-generated position. I hold these assump- tions throughout this paper.guistic research.In this paper, we lay down two minimalist assumptionsand demonstrate that simply by combining these, all the lingering problems germane to the previous approaches (including the Locality) can be eliminated. Additionally, a variety of puzzles that arise in scrambling contexts all fall out nicely. The two hypotheses include Chomsky's (2000; 2001; 2008) PIC (Phase Impenetrability Condi- tion) and a novel proposal of DC (Distinctness of Copies), which is an elaboration on Richards's (2000; 2010) prin- ciple of Distinctness. Insofar as the current analysis is sustained, it will then supply empirical evidence in sup- port of these theoretical assumptions in the minimalist program, while further clarifying some residual problems.The structure of the paper is as follows. In section 2, while reviewing the Locality approach to FNQs, we tease out an important fact that structural variations of FNQ- constructions are contingent on the availability of LF copies created by scrambling. In section 3 we lay down our proposals, and in section 4 we demonstrate that the DC, in conjunction with the PIC, provide a principled and unitary account to all the structural variations that have posed substantial problems in previous approaches. Section 5 is a conclusion of the paper, with a discussion of some predictions that follow from the current analysis.2 Locality and ProblemsSince it was first observed by Haig (1980) and Kuroda (1980), the subject-object asymmetry of FNQs, shown in (1) in Japanese, has been described by the term “Locali- ty,” defined in terms of mutual c-command between an NP (or an NP trace) and its associated numeral quantifi- er.22 Locality:a. The NQ and its associated NP observe strict locality (Saito, 1985). b. The NQ or its trace and the NP or its trace must mutuallyc-command each other (Miyagawa, 1989).Gwangrak SonEnglish Language and Literature Kyungpook National University Daegu, South Korea 702-701 gson@knu.ac.kr  
(1) a. *Gakusei-ga sake-o san-nin nonda. student-Nom sake-Acc 3-CLsubj drank‘Three students drank sake.’b. Sake-o gakusei-ga san-bon nonda.Sake-Accstudent-Nom3-CLobj drank ‘Students drank three bottles of sake.’In the era of Government and Binding, it was assumed that a subject cannot scramble, as indicated by Saito’s (1985) “ban on subject scrambling,” and is merged di- rectly in its surface position. Since the subject does not involve movement, it has no vP-internal trace, resulting in violation of the Locality requirement in sentence (1a). In contrast, an object is assumed to scramble freely and leaves a trace. Consequently, the trace and its associated NQ in VP satisfy the required constraint, leading to the grammaticality of sentence (1b). In this view, the subject- object asymmetry of FNQs in scrambling contexts comes as a consequence of the trace visibility in a position next to the NQs. (2) below depicts this account under the Lo- cality approach.(2) a. *Gakusei-ga sake-o [NO TRACE san-nin] nonda. b. Sake-o gakusei-ga [TRACE san-bon] nonda.As a reader might already have observed, this account can hardly hold in its original form in the minimalist pro- gram, one major finding of which is that the subject is derived from its vP-internal position (Kitagawa, 1986; Sportiche, 1988; Kuroda, 1988; Koopman and Sportiche, 1991, etc.). Under the so-called VP-Internal Subject Hy- pothesis (VPISH), (2a) could have the following struc- ture, in which the subject has scrambled over the preposed object from its lower base position (Bobalik, 2003:115, see also Bošković, 2004).(3) Gakusei-ga sake-o [vP tsubj san-nin [VP tobj nonda]] This structure, once its validity is proven, will significant-ly weaken the Locality approach since it obliterates the disparate patterns of the traces between subject and ob- ject. However, one might argue, in full compliance with Saito’s original intuition of the “ban on subject scram- bling,” that the “double-scrambling structure” (3) is less economic than (2a) since it contains more movement steps to arrive at the same word order. Therefore, from the economy perspective, the Locality account still holds that (2a) is an optimal structure and that there is no li- censing trace for the stranded subject NQ. If we strictly adhere to this view, the prediction is clear: there should be no stranded quantifier associated with the subject.Unfortunately, however, this prediction is too general, since in the literature we find a number of counter- examples where subject NQs occur precisely in this structural format, yet maintain grammatical integrity. 3 See Kuno, 1973; Ishii, 1998; Takami, 1998; Gunji and Hasida, 1998; Kuno and Takami, 2003; Nishigauchi and Ishii, 2003; Yoshimoto et al., 2006; Miyagawa and Ari- kawa, 2007; Miyagawa 2010; 2013 for Japanese exam- ples illustrating this fact; see also Lee, 2003; S. Kim, 2004; Moon, 2007; Y. Kim, 2008; J. Kim, 2013, and Son, 2015 for the same fact in Korean.A further complication arises with the Locality analy- sis. Miyagawa (2001; 2003; 2005) has argued that Japa- nese does exhibit EPP effects, and a scope contrast as described below comes as a consequence of EPP- movement by either the subject or the object to a position higher than negation.(4) a. Zen’in-ga sono tesuto-o uke-nakat-ta. all-Nom that test-Acc take-Neg-Past ‘All did not take that test.’*not>all, all>notb. Sono tesuto-o zen’in-ga t uke-nakat-ta that test-Acc all-Nom take-Neg-Past ‘That test, all did not take.’not > all, (all > not)On Miyagawa’s account, T bears a strong EPP-feature in Japanese, and hence it requires movement of some NP to [Spec,TP] in overt syntax; in (4a), the Spec of TP is oc-3 The examples of (i) and (ii) below are representative of the nonstandard paradigms (i.e. exceptions to standard paradigms) in Japanese and Korean, respectively.(i) a. ?Gakusei-ga sake-o [PAUSE] san-nin nonda. students-Nom sake-Acc “Three students drank beer.” b. Gakusei-ga watasi-no hon-o3-CLsubj drank (M&A:651) futa-ri-sika kaw-ana-student-Nom my-Gen book-Acc 2-CLsubj-only buy-Neg- katta.Past“Only two students bought my book.”(Takami, 1998:92) (ii) a. Marathon juja-deul-i kyeolseungjeum-ulMarathon runner-PL-Nom finishing line-Loc taseos-myeong thongkwahaessta.5-CLsubj pass-Pst“Five marathon runners have passed the finishing line.”b. Haksaeng-tul-i sukje-lul jikeumkkaji student-PL-Nom homework-Acc so far se-myeong jechulhaesseo3-CLsubj submitted“Three students submitted homework so far.”(Son, 2015: 232-239)
cupied by the subject, while in (4b) it may be occupied by either the subject or the scrambled object. Crucially, in (4b), the subject can remain in-situ in the specifier posi- tion of vP, where it may be interpreted within the scope of negation. If the subject could be externally merged in [Spec,vP] as in (4b), and if we imagine that the higher subject in (4a) is indeed the one derived from the lower vP-internal position through scrambling (in compliance with the VPISH),4 the double-scrambling structure of (3) cannot simply be banished by economy, because the movement operation of the subject is a bona fide fact. This consideration, then, brings us back to the initial quest regarding the subject-object asymmetry in (1) since in this view both NPs are permitted to scramble to TP and leave traces alike.This state of affairs seems to indicate that the Locality account is now obsolete. Alternatively, it could mean that both structures (2a) and (3) coexist in Japanese and Ko- rean grammar, in a way suggested by Miyagawa and Arikawa (2007) (see also Miyagawa, 2010), so each may represent the standard versus nonstandard case (i.e. ex- ceptions to the standard paradigm) of the FNQ- constructions. Although Miyagawa and Arikawa (2007) (M&A, hereafter) have merely suggested this (based on phonological experiments), we will show that they are indeed correct. We will support them by providing a syntactic ground concerning the varying structures of (2a) and (3) for subject scrambling and (2b) for object scrambling. More specifically, we claim that a subject undergoes scrambling by either (2a) or (3), yielding a dispar- ate LF structure. The subject lacks an LF trace (or copy, in minimalist terms) in the former, but leaves it in the latter derivation. The object, on the other hand, always leaves an LF trace after scrambling, as illustrated by (2b). We claim that these varia-4 Based on such examples as the following, Ko (2007:5) claims that subject scrambling is indeed possible in Korean.(i) a. John-ii [CP na-nun [CP ti Mary-lul mannassta-ko] sayngkakhanta]] J-Nom I-Top M-ACC met-C think‘John, I think that t met Mary.’b. Haksayng-tul-ii pwunmyenghi ti sey-myeng maykcwu-lul student-PL-Nom evidently 3-CLsubj beer-Acc masiesstadrank‘Evidently, three students drank beer.’In (ia) above, an embedded subject has scrambled over a matrix subject, and in (ib) it is even separated from its NQ by a sentential adverb. See Kurata, 1991; Lee, 1993 and Sohn, 1995 for more examples of this sort in Korean and Japanese.tions of LF copies follow from two minimalist as- sumptions that we lay down in section 3.3 ProposalsAn important development of the past decade is the hypothesis that syntactic operations are not option- al but triggered (i.e. the Last Resort principle). The most influential work along this line is Chomsky’s (1993, et seq.) proposal that uninterpretable fea- tures play a central role in the triggering process under the Phase Impenetrability Condition (PIC). In this system, only phase heads (C and transitive v*) bear uninterpretable features, and consequently, phase-internal elements are forced to move only through phase edges. The phase heads also mark points in the derivation at which the complements of the phase heads are transmitted from narrow syntax to the interfaces, PF and LF. Once the se- lected structure undergoes Transfer to the interface components, its phonological and semantic infor- mation is no longer accessible for further opera- tions. Chomsky’s (2000) formulation of the PIC is given in (5); the resultant patterns of search spaces are depicted in (6).(5) Phase Impenetrability Condition (Chomsky, 2000:108)In phase α with head H, the domain of H is not accessible to operations outside α; only H and its edges are accessible to such operations.(6) Search spaces of phase headsCPC’CTPSearch space available to C      T’ Sv*P     v*’VP  v* Search space available to v  VAs shown in (6), the search space of the phasehead v* is VP that contains V and the object. On the other hand, the higher phase C has Spec-T, T, Spec-v*, and v* in its search space, to the exclu- sion of VP. Since the PIC in (5) imposes VP- Transfer as soon as v*P is complete, the probe C cannot look inside VP. In other words, the VP andObj
any elements contained therein are no longer ac- cessible to the phase head C (and the head T, which becomes a probe due to C). The search spaces sketched in (6) will have a direct impact on the distribution of FNQs in Japanese and Korean, as will become clear shortly.Along with this, based on Richards’s (2000; 2010) principle of Distinctness, we elaborate an- other constraint that holds presumably in narrow syntax, i.e. before a derivation reaches PF- and LF- interfaces. On PF side, there is a general tendency to reduce or eliminate phonological “redundancy” within a certain minimal domain, similar to the effects of the OCP in phonology. Analogous phe- nomena are also found in narrow syntax, among which Richards’s principle of Distinctness on line- arization is particularly instructive to us in its scope and effects. 5 The Distinctness principle states that two nodes that are too similar, e.g., of the same category, cannot be in the same phase domain.(7) Distinctness Principle (Richards, 2010)If a linearization statement <α, α> is generated, the derivation crashes.Although Richards’s (2000) principle of this only makes use of node labels and does not refer to par- ticular information of lexical items on terminals, we may further assume that linear ordering is in- deed sensitive to the phonetic forms on terminals, not just to their categorical nodes. One compelling piece of evidence for this direction comes from Grohmann’s (2003) Condition on Domain Exclu- sivity (CDE) in (8), which uses phonetic infor- mation of the syntactic objects on terminals, while taking precisely the same effect as Distinctness.(8) Condition on Domain Exclusivity (Grohmann, 2003:272)An object O in a phrase marker must have an exclusive occurrence in each Prolific Domain ΠΔ, unless duplicity yields a drastic effect on the output; that is, a different realization of O in that ΠΔ at PF.5 For more work on “syntactic OCP,” see Mohnan (1994), Yip (1998), Anttila and Fong (2001), Erlewine (2013), and the references cited therein.The CDE in (8) permits only one instance of the same phonetic expression in a particular syntactic domain, namely, Prolific Domain (PD) in his terms, to the effect that there would be no two copies of phonetically identical form within a PD. This ex- plains why such an example as (9a) below, in dis- tinction from (9c), is ungrammatical. For convergence, one instance of the copies (i.e. the lower one) must be spelled out in a distinct phonet- ic form, as in (9c).(9) a. *John likes John.b. [vP John v [VP likes John]] c. John likes himself.(Grohmann, 2003:275)Importantly, note at this point that Grohmann’s CDE is reducible to Distinctness once we make the latter applicable to the set of phonetically identical copies in the course of syntactic computations. In this view, multiple occurrences of the same pho- netic form cannot be linearized in syntax because doing so creates an indistinguishable set within a relevant domain. Following this line of reasoning and taking Chomsky’s search spaces in (6) to be the relevant domain where Distinctness applies, we propose the following generalization.(10) Distinctness of Copies (DC)Identical copies cannot appear within a search space (defined under the PIC).The essence of the Distinctness of Copies (DC) is to ban phonetically identical copies from occurring within a single search space. In Grohmann’s sys- tem, this condition is met by the operation of Copy Spell-Out (within a PD), i.e., by spelling out a lower copy in a distinct phonetic form. However, crucially, there is another way of satisfying this condition: By simply “deleting” one party of the two-membered chain. We contend that this is ex- actly what happens in the course of syntactic deri- vations involving subject- and object scrambling in the context of FNQ-constructions. When move- ment takes place within a search space, a copy in the tailas is usual in the process of copy-deletion (Nunes, 2001)is wiped out in deference to the DC. We call this operation in (11) Copy Elimina- tion. Similar to Grohmann’s Copy Spell-Out, this operation is a Last Resort strategy to fulfill the re- 
quirement imposed by the DC, by turning a two- membered chain into a single-membered chain.(11) Copy EliminationIf a movement chain <α, α> is created within a search space, eliminate the lower copy.Since we assume that the Copy Elimination in (11) holds in narrow syntax before a derivation reaches the PF- and LF-interfaces, as is in Rich- ards’s Distinctness and Grohmann’s CDE, the con- sequence of the operation is formidable, especially in its effects on LF.6 The subsequent section is a demonstration of how the proposed principle of the DC, in conjunction with Chomsky’s PIC, correctly predicts the bewildering patterns of the copies not- ed in section 2; the subject-object asymmetry in (2a) versus (2b), and the standard-nonstandard var- iations of subject scrambling in (2a) versus (3).4 AnalysesBy adhering to the essence of the Locality ap- proach, we assume in this article that an NQ must be in a strict local relation with its host NP for in- terpretation. However, deviating from major works in this approach (Saito, 1989; Miyagawa, 1989; 2001; 2013 and M&A), we adopt the minimalist assumption of the VPISH (Kitagawa, 1986; Spor- tiche, 1988; Kuroda, 1988; Koopman and Spor- tiche, 1991, etc.). That is, a subject is externally merged in the Spec of vP regardless of the standard and nonstandard variations of subject scrambling. This implies that M&A’s (2a) and (3), which rep- resent the structure of the standard and nonstand- ard paradigms, respectively, are indistinctive as the subject is commonly originated from the vP- internal position. They share an identical structure in (12).(12) Gakusei-ga sake-o [vP tsubj san-nin [VP tobj nonda]]Given the common structure of (12) for both paradigms, the judgmental variations between (2a) and (3) now turn out to be contingent on the avail-6 Since Richards’s (2010) Distinctness is sensitive to the distribution of strong phase boundaries, it is obviously not a pure PF-operation. In the same vein, since Grohmann’s (2003) CDE makes use of Prolific Do- mains within the sphere of narrow syntax, it also cannot be viewed purely as a PF-operation. .ability of the subject traces in-situ. That is, if the subject trace in the [Spec,vP] is somehow made “invisible” and hence the structure looks like the standard paradigm of (2a), the stranded subject NQ will be left uninterpretable since no licensing DP is available next to it. On the other hand, if the in-situ subject is “visible” and available for interpretation of the adjoining NQsubj, the sentence improves its grammaticality. 7 This constitutes a nonstandard case of subject scrambling, as depicted in (3). On this reasoning, an emerging question is how to ex- plain the availability of the traces that have a direct impact on the interpretability of the FNQs. Chom- sky’s PIC and our novel proposal of the DC pro- vide an adequate answer to this question.First, consider (13), a structure of the standard paradigm built on this view. [From now on, we use “copy” in place of “trace” in favor of minimalist terms.](13) [TP Subj Obj [vP [Subj NQS][VP Obj V]]]]]In the above, the subject raises from its -position in [Spec,vP] to [Spec,TP], driven by the EPP- feature on T (Miyagawa, 2001; 2003; 2005). Cru- cially, the two copies of the movement chain, <Spec-T, Spec-v>, are both contained in the search space of C that covers Spec-T, T, Spec-v, and v (see (6)). Since this chain does not comply to the principle of the DC in (10), the lower copy in [Spec,vP] undergoes Copy Elimination. The stranded subject NQ then fails to meet the Locality requirement at LF, causing a problem with its in- terpretation.Although the standard derivation (13) crashes for the aforementioned reason, there is an alterna- tive way of deriving the surface word order of (12). If we take Chomskian style A’-movement that raises an in-situ subject to [Spec,CP] in one fell swoop, as depicted in (14) below (Chomsky, 2001; 2008; see also Pesetsky and Torrego, 2001 and Erlewine, 2013), an interesting result emerges.87 Nonstandard examples are less than perfect in general. They become fully acceptable only with the help of a peculiar sort of prosody around the sentence. See M&A and Son (2015), which independently contend that these peculiar prosodies are what accounts for the degradedness of the nonstandard cases.8 Pesetsky and Torrego (2001) have claimed that the subject may check the EPP on C via a direct movement to [Spec,CP]. On the other hand, Erlewine (2013), based on the Agent Focus   
(14) [CP Subj Obj [vP [Subj NQS][VP Obj V]]]]]In the A’-movement configuration above, the dis- placement chain of the subject, <Spec-C, Spec-v>, obeys the DC as the copy in the head stays outside the search space of C. As a result, the in-situ sub- ject copy passes down to the interfaces and sup- ports its adjoining NQ at LF.9 This explains how an otherwise ungrammatical sentence is rendered “saved” through the nonstandard derivations of subject scrambling.Let us now proceed to see how the current pro- posal successfully captures the conventional sub- ject-object asymmetry in scrambling. Recall that an object NQ can be freely separated from its asso- ciated NP by a subject or any other elements in a sentence. This is in contrast with the pattern of a subject NQ that only allows such separation op- tionally, resulting in varying judgments as we have seen. From the perspective developed in this article, the source for this asymmetry is surprisingly sim- ple. Consider the following example of object scrambling, repeated from (1b), with its derivation in (15b).(15) a. Sake-o gakusei-ga san-bon nonda. Sake-Acc student-Nom 3-CLobj drank ‘Students drank three bottles of sake.’b. [TP Obj [vP Obj [vP Subj [VP [Obj NQobj] V]]]]As depicted in (15b), the object raises to [Spec,TP] in a successive cyclic fashion; it first moves to the outer edge of vP and further scrambles to the Spec of TP for the purpose of the EPP. Of these, the first step of displacement, <Spec-v, Complement of V>, satisfies the DC as the copy in the position of tail is the only expression of the object in the search space of v*, namely, VP (see (6)). Consequently, the in-situ copy transfers and becomes visible at LF, licensing its adjoining NQ at the interpreta-phenomenon in the language of Kaqchickel, argues that the EPP is not required in this language. As such, the subject is allowed to move to [Spec,CP] without stopping over in the specifier position of TP.9 A warning is in order here. Although the subject chain in (14) is consistent with the DC and leaves an interpretable copy at LF, it does not necessarily mean that the copy is visible at PF. This is because the PF-interface has an independent pro- cess of copy-deletion, in a way suggested by Nunes (2001) and Corver and Nunes (2007).tional level. Note that the second step of movement, which has the head in the [Spec,TP] and the tail in the [Spec,vP], contravenes with the DC in the search space of C. However, the concomitant dele- tion operation in the tail exerts no impact on the interpretability of the object NQ since it has al- ready undergone Transfer and becomes interpreta- ble by the help of the string-adjacent object copy in-situ. The possible separation of the object NQ from its host NP is thus accounted for.In fact, since the object merges with V and un- dergoes Transfer independently of its higher copy upon VP-Transfer, it is invariably predicted to be visible at LF. As Abels (2003) has correctly stated by his Anti-Locality, VP-internal movement, e.g. from the complement position to the specifier posi- tion of VP, is prevented. As such, whether it moves to [Spec,TP] or [Spec,CP] via A- or A’-movement, it always leaves an interpretable copy at LF. This is in contrast with the subject, the chain link of which may or may not leave an LF copy; it leaves a copy if it targets an A-position in [Spec,TP], but not if it moves directly to [Spec,CP] via topicalizaton. This provides a source of the asymmetry between the subject and object with regard to the interpretabil- ity of the FNQs associated with them.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have seen that the operation of the DC is quintessential in determining the availa- bility of the copies at LF in a lower position of a two-membered chain. Subject scrambling from [Spec,vP] to [Spec,TP] lacks an interpretable copy in the tail position, while the same movement to [Spec,CP] does leave such a copy. On the other hand, the object always leaves a copy at LF after scrambling. These variations turn out to be a result of interactive operations of the DC with the PIC. Since the DC demands an exclusive copy of the same expression in a search space of the PIC, movement leaves a copy at LF only when it targets a position within the next search space; it does not leave an LF copy if movement takes place too close within a single domain of search space. We may refer to this dependency as the “Semantic Copy Effect.”(16) The Semantic Copy EffectMovement leaves a copy at LF for semantic interpretations only when it targets a position        
within the next search space (although the copy may be deleted on the PF side).Overall, the current analysis makes the follow- ing predictions:(17) Predictions:A. A- chain of the subject, <Spec-T, Spec-v>,lacks a copy in-situ at LF.10B. A’- chain of the subject, <Spec-C, Spec-v>,leaves a copy in-situ at LFC. The object always leaves a copy at LF,whether it undergoes A- or A’-movement. D. An unaccusative/passive subject willpattern like the object and leave a copy in- situ, while an unergative subject may or may not leave a copy at LF.11E. An A’-moved subject (i.e. nonstandard paradigms) will have a topic interpreta tion.1210 This prediction has a direct bearing on Chomsky’s (1995) claim of “No A-movement traces (or copies).” This article shows that Chomsky does not provide the whole picture. It is not that the copies never exist- ed, but that previously manifesting copies were deleted by the opera- tion of Copy Elimination. The proposal of the DC explains why in the case of objects with A-movement, copies still remain at LF, as stated in (17C). Further investigation is needed to see if this remains consistent in other languages.11 The following examples demonstrate that this prediction holds true in Korean (data adapted from Ko, 2007:68). See Miyagawa, 1989; Mihara, 1998; Kuno and Takami, 2003; M&A; S. Kim, 2004; and J. Kim, 2013 for more examples of this kind in Korean and Japanese.Some of these predictions have been proved empir- ically in natural languages; some others remain yet unexplored. Although we have drawn these predic- tions through the study of scrambling phenomenon in the context of FNQ-constructions in Japanese and Korean, we wish to see their validity in other domains of movement and in other languages as well. With much anticipation for research towards this direction, we conclude this paper.ReferencesAbels, Klaus. 2003. Successive Cyclicity, Anti-locality, and Adposition Stranding. Doctoral dissertation. University of Connecticut.Anttila, Arto, and Vivienne Fong. 2001. The Partitive Constraint in Optimality Theory. Journal of Seman- tics, 17:281-314.Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 2003. Floating Quantifiers: HandlewithCare.InThesecondGLOT Interna- tional state-of-the-article book, ed. Lisa Cheng and Rint Sybesma, 107-148. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.Bošković, Želko. 2004. Be Careful Where You Float Your Quantifiers. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, 22: 681-741.Chomsky, Noam. 1993. A Minimalist Program for Lin- guistic Theory. In The View from Building 20: Essay in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, ed. Ken Haleand Samuel J. Keyser. Cambridge: MIT Press.Chomsky, Noam. 1995. Categories and Transformations. In The Mininmalist Program, 219-394. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist Inquiries: The Framework. In Step by step: Essays on Minimalist Syntax in Honor of Howard Lasnik, ed. R. Martin, D. Michaels, and J. Uriagereka, 89-155. Cambridge, MA, MIT Press.Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by Phase. In Ken Hale: A Life in Language, 1-52. ed. Michael Kenstowicz. Cambridge: MIT Press.Chomsky, Noam. 2008. On Phases. In Foundational issues in Linguistic Theory, 133-166. ed. Freiden Robert, Carlos P. Ostero and Maria Luisa Zubizarreta. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.Corver, Nobert and Jairo Nunes. 2007. The Copy Theo- ry of Movement. John Benjamins Publishing Compa- ny.Erlewine, Michael Yoshitaka. 2013. Anti-locality and Kaqchikel Agent Focus. To appear in Proceedings ofor background-focus. I would like to refer the reader to these works for examples and detailed arguments. (i)a.Koyangi-kapyeong-ulosey-mali juk-ess-ta cat-Nom disease-by 3-CLanimal die-Past-Dec ‘Three cats died from diseases.’(unaccusative)b. Eoje, catongcha-ka koyhan-eykey two-tay pusu-eoji-ess- yesterday, car-Nom robber-Dat 2-CLcar break-Pass- ta (passive)Past-Dec‘Yesterday, two cars were broken into by a robber.’c. ?*Haksayng-tul-i caki-tul ton-ulo two-myeong cenhwaha- student-PL-Nom self-PL money-by 2-CL telephone-yess-ta (unergative) Past-Dec‘Two students telephoned with their own money.’On the other hand, for the external merge position of the unaccusa- tive/passive subject (i.e. a complement position of V), in distinction from that of the unergative subject, see Perlmutter, 1978; Belletti and Rizzi, 1981; Burzio, 1986; Miyagawa, 1989; Hale and Keyser, 1993, and Chomsky, 1995.12 Lee (2003; 2006), S. Kim (2004), J. Kim (2013) and Son (2015) have independently claimed that the so-called non- standard examples are motivated by the information structure, and carry a discourse/pragmatic meaning of a topic-comment 
the 31st West Coast Conference on Formal Linguis-tics, 31. Cascadilla Press.Grohmann, Kleanthes K. 2003. Successive Cyclicityunder (Anti-)local Considerations. Syntax, 6(3):260-312.Gunji, Takao and Koiti Hasida. 1998. Masurement andquantification. In Topics in constraint-based gram- mar of Japanese, ed. Takao Gunji and Koiti Hasida, 39-79. Dordrecht: Kluwer.Haig, John. 1980. Some Observations on Quantifier Floating in Japanese. Linguistics, 18:1065-1083.Ishii, Yasuo. 1998. Floating Quantifiers in Japanese: NP quantifiers, VP quantifiers, or both? Researching and Verifying on Advanced Theory of Human Language, 149-171. Graduate School of Language Sciences Kanda University of International Studies, Japan.Kim, Jong-Bok. 2013. Floated Numeral Classifiers in Korean: A Non-Derivational, Functional Account Floating Quantifiers. Lingua, 133:189-212.Kim, Soo-Yeon. 2004. Constraints on Distributional Patterns of Floating Quantifiers. In Eoneuhak [The Linguistic Association of Korean Journal], 38:43-66.Kim, Yong-Ha. 2008. Against Cyclic Linearization: Scrambling and Numeral Quantifiers in Korean. In Language Research, 44(2):241-274.Kitagawa, Yoshihisa. 1986. Subjects in English and Japanese. Doctoral dissertation. University of Mas- sachusetts.Ko, Heejeong. 2007. Asymmetries in Scrambling and Cyclic Linearization. Linguistic Inquiry, 38(1): 49-83.Koopman, Hilda and Dominique Sportiche. 1991. The Position of Subjects. Lingua, 85(2): 211-58.Kuno, Susumu. 1973. The Structure of the Japanese Language. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.Kuno, Susumu, and K. Takami. 2003. Remarks on Uu- accusativity and Unergativity in Japanese and Korean. In Japanese/Korean Linguistics, 12:280-294. ed. William McClure. Stanford. Calif.: CSLI.Kurata, Kiyoshi. 1991. The Syntax of Dependent Ele- ments. Doctoral dissertation. University of Massa- chusetts, Amherst.Kuroda, Sige Yuki. 1980. Bunkoozoo-no Hikahu. In Nitieigo Hikakukooza: Bunpoo, ed. T. Kunihiro. To- kyo, Takkushan.Kuroda, Sige Yuki. 1988. Whether We Agree or Not: A comparative syntax of English and Japanese. Linguis- tic Investigations, 12:1-47.Lee, Chungmin, 2003, Contrastive Topic and/or Con- trastive Focus. In Japanese/Korean Linguistics, 12:382-420. ed. William McClure. Elsevier.Lee, Chungmin, 2006. Contrastive Topic/Focus and Polarity in Discourse. In Where Semantics Meets Pragmatics, ed. K. von Heusinger K, Turner, 382- 420. Elsevier.Lee, Young-Suk. 1993. Scrambling as Case-driven Ob- ligatory Movement. Doctoral Dissertation. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Penn.Mihara, Ken-ichi. 1998. Nihongo-no Toogo Koozoo [Syntactic structures in Japanese]. Tokyo: Syoa- kusya.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1989. Structure and case-marking in Japanese. New York: Academic Press.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2001. The EPP, Scrambling, and Wh-in Situ. Chapter 9. In Michael Kenstowicz. ed. by Ken Hale. The MIT Press.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2003. A-movement Scrambling and Options Without Optionality. Word order and Scrambling, ed. S. Karimi, 177-200. Oxford: Black- well.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2005. EPP and semantically vacu- ous scrambling. The Free Word order Phenomenon, ed. J. Sabel and M. Saito, 181-220. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2010. Why Agree? Why Move? Linguistic Monograph Fifty-Four. The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2013. Telicity, Stranded Numeral Quantifiers, and Quantifier Scope. Chapter 2. Ms. MIT.Miyagawa, Shigeru and Koji Arikwa. 2007. Locality in Syntax and Floating Numeral Quantifiers. Linguistic Inquiry, 38(4): 645-670.Mohnan, Tara.1994, Case OCP: A Constraint on Word Order in Hindi. In Theoretical Perspectives on Word Order in South Asian languages, ed. Miriam Butt, Tracy Holloway King, and Gillian Ramchand, 185- 216. Stanford, CA: CSLI.Moon, Gui-Sun. 2007. Scrambling and PIC: Against Cyclic Linearization. Studies in Generative Grammar, 17(2):233-252.Nishigauchi, Taisuke and Yasuo Ishii. 2003. Eigo Kara Nihongo o Miru [Looking at Japanese from English]. Tokyo: Kenkyusha.Nunes, Jairo. 2001. Sideward Movement. Linguistic Inquiry, 32:303-344.Pesetsky, David and Esther Torrego. 2001. T-to-C Movement: Causes and Consequences. In Ken Hale: A life in language, ed. Michael Kenstowicz. Cam- bridge, Mass.: MIT Press.Richards, Norvin. 2000. Uttering Trees. Linguistic In- quiry Monograph 56. The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. MIT.Richards, Norvin. 2010. (Revised) Uttering Trees. MIT Press.Saito, Mamoru. 1985. Some Asymmetries in Japanese and Their Theoretical Implications. Doctoral disser- tation. MIT, Cambridge, MA.Sohn, Keun Won. 1995. Negative polarity items, scope and economy. Doctoral dissertation. University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Son, Gwangrak. 2015. The Nonstandard Paradigm of FNQ-Constructions as Topic Movement. Linguistic Research, 32(1):225-252.Sportiche, Dominique. 1988. A Theory of Floating Quantifiers and Its Corollaries for Constituent Struc- ture. Linguistic Inquiry, 19(4):25-449.Takami, Ken-ich. 1998. Nihongo no Suuryousi Yuuri Nituite [On Quantifier Float in Japanese]. Gekkan Gengo 27(1), 86-95. Tokyo: Taishukan.Yip, Moira. 2002. Tone. Cambridge University Press. Yoshimoto, Kei, Masahiro Kobayashi, Jiroaki Nakamu- ra and Yoshiki Mori. 2006. Processing of Infor- mation Structure and Floating Quantifiers in Japanese. In New Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence.ed. Takahi Washio, Akito Sakurai, Katsuto Nakajima, Hideaki Takeda, Satoshi Tojo, and Makoto Yokoo, 103-110. Springer.