RESEARCH ON CHINESE QUESTION PROCESSING TOWARD DOMAIN-SPECIFIC QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMAbstract: This paper presents a new thinking on the processing of Chinese questions when the restricted-domain question answering system is built. Chinese is thought to be one of the most difficult languages to deal with, because the part-of–speech of a Chinese word is hard to judge unless it’s in the context, and also the syntactic structure is variable. This paper at first analyses the characteristics of the language of Chinese and then constructs the proper templates for the question processing. At last, a demo restricted-domain question answering system is built to check the feasibility and accuracy of the question processing method.Keywords: domain-specific question answering system, Chinese query processing, Vietnamese military, ontological knowledge base1 IntroductionIn the last decade, the information on the Internet has grown exponentially. People can find whatever they want from the Internet, but at the same time, they ask for high quality and relevance of the information. Under this background, Information Retrieval (IR) begins to show its potential value. Several big corporations have joined the research of search engine, such as Google, Yahoo and Baidu. Each of them has developed wide-used search engine.As semantic markup becomes ubiquitous, it has been possible to ask the search engine questions in natural language. It will be more convenient than the traditional search engines that based onkeyword retrieval mechanism. Question answering system (QA) is another form of IR, which is different from the traditional search engine. The technique of traditional engine is based on keyword matching. But the key word only cannot explain clearly the user’s intention of search. Question answering system allows the users to apply natural language when they ask questions, so the users can explain themselves clearly. The results given by the keyword-based search engines are always websites or texts about the keyword, so the users have to find what they want by reading these websites or texts. But the answers give by QA are in natural language, which can save a lot of time for the users. According to the domain the QA concerns, the question answering systems can be divided into open-domain question answering system and restricted-domain question answering system. While according to the database the system based on, they can be roughly divided into five kinds: Chatbot, QA based on knowledge base, question answering retrieval system, QA based on free text and QA based on free text and knowledge base. The QA based on ontology belongs to the QA based on knowledge base. In this paper, a QA based on ontology is applied to test the effect of the question processing method which is proposed here.2 Recent researchBoth in China and overseas now put much focus on the research on ontology-driven question answering system. The ontology driven question answering system has several advantages when
compared with the QA based on free text and the question answering retrieval system. The semantic information can be stored in a structured knowledge base. The ontology allows the definition of class hierarchies, object properties and relation rules, such as, transitivity or functionality [2].In China, a research group headed by Cungen Cao has established the NKI question answering system. The users can use natural language to ask questions like “ 今天北京的天气如何”, “傣 族有多少人” . Yun Zhao and Xiaozhong Fan, from Beijing Institute of Technology, has applied transition network in the ontology and search for the answers by reasoning. In China, there are many other researches focus on the question answering system based on ontology, but question processing is still one of the most difficult part because of the variability of Chinese.Beyond China, many well-known question answering systems have been developed, such as AquaLog, which is a portable question answering system taking queries expressed in natural language and returns answers drawn from the available ontology-compliant semantic markup [3]. And QuestIO system is a natural language interface for accession structured information, which is domain independent and easy to use without chaining [4]. There are also many other QA based on ontology, such as Shiyan, QACID, PowerAqua, etc.3 Sentence patterns of Chinese questionsEnglish and many other Indo-European languages tend to remove the interrogative words to the Complementizer Phrase (CP). For example:A. John knows who likes Mary. (约翰知道谁喜 欢玛丽。)B. Who does John think likes Mary? (约翰认为谁喜欢玛丽?)Sentence A is called an indirect question, which is actually a declarative sentence, while sentence B is a direct question. They have the same surface-structure, but their deep-structure is different. We can see their deep-structure as follows:A. [CP IP John knows [CP whoi [IP ti likes Mary]]]B. [CP whoi does [IP John think [CP t’i [IP ti likes Mary]]]]In sentence A, “who” is in the clause of “knows”, so it has a narrow scope of effect. But “who” has a wide scope of effect, because it makes the whole sentence a direct question. The displacement of “who” gives the two sentences different meanings. But in Chinese, there is no visible displacement of interrogative. For example:C. 你喜欢谁?(Who do you like?)D.*谁你喜欢?The expression of D does not exit, so in sentence C we can find that the interrogative does not need to change its place. So we can assume that a declarative sentence can be changed into a question without changing the word order.In Chinese, questions can be divided into the following sentence patterns: yes-no questions, specific questions, positive-negative questions, and select questions. Yes-no questions refer to the questions that we can use “yes” or “no” to answer. For example:E. 他从美国回来了? (Has he come back from the US?)——是的。/不是的。(Yes. / No.)If we add modal particle to the end of the question , like “吗/吧”, we can see more clearly that it is a question, because the sentence has the same word order as a declarative sentence. So, if
we want analyze yes-no question, we can just analyze the declarative sentence.Specific question is also called wh-question, because it uses interrogative word “wh-” to replace the information you want to ask. For example:F: 越南的首都是哪里?(Where is the capital of Vietnam?)——河内市。(Hanoi.)If we use 河内市 to replace 哪里, we can find out that the question is turned into a declarative sentence without changing the word order. When we process this wh-question, we delete words begun with wh-, and use query triple <Vietnam, capital, ? > to express this question and map it onto the ontology entities. The word order of the query triple is <subject, predicate, object>. In daily life, we usually ask question about the subject and object, so there are two conditions: <?, predicate, object> and <subject, predicate, ? >.Positive-negative question is also called A-not-A question. A can be referred to verb, auxiliary, adjective or phrase. Now we list five Chinese positive-negative questions here:G. 你知道这件事不知道这件事? H. 你知道这件事不知道?I. 你知道不知道这件事?J. 你知不知道这件事?K. 你知道这件事不?All these five questions mean “Do you know this event or do not know?” Usually “yes” or “no” is used to answer positive-negative question. List out the A-not-A part, it can be found that the question become a declarative sentence “你知道 这件事”, and the answer of this kind of question is “yes/no”. In order to deal with these five questions, first we have to eliminate the repeated elements and restore the trunk of the question.Select questions always follow the pattern “A or B”, added by the modal particle “呢” sometimes. Under certain circumstance, the modal adverbs “到底” or “究竟” are added into the question. For example, “你到底是选 A 还是选 B 呢”. Like the positive-negative questions, the modal adverbs and modal particle have to be eliminated first, and then formalize the questions. For example:L. 你到底是去教室还是去食堂?After the preprocessing of the question, it turns into the sentence “你去教室去食堂”. So this question turns into two declarative sentences –“你去教室” and “你去食堂”. The answer of this question is to choose one sentence from the above two.From the analysis above, we can find that we can use the knowledge of declarative sentences to deal with questions. When we deal with the questions the users input, first we need to use segmentation tool to segment the question. In our research, we use ICTCLAS to segment the question and tag the part-of-speech of the words. Then a list of stop words is used to eliminate the words that do not need in question processing. The stop words include modal particle, interrogative, and auxiliary words like “到底”, “究竟”, “那么” etc. Then the truck of the question is left to be processed. As we have discussed above, after eliminating the characteristic of question, a question is more like a declarative sentence. For example, the question “义安省生产肥煤吗?” is turned into “义安省 /ns 生产/v 肥煤/n” after segmentation, POS tagging and elimination of stop words. Then we find it is a declarative sentence, and we can map the keywords onto the ontology to see whether their relations are right. If the question is a specific question like “越南的稻米主要产自哪 里?”. The question will be turned into “越南/ns 稻 米 /n 产 自 /v” after preprocessing. The sentence can be expressed like <ns, n, v, ?>, and then we can use the known information of n, v to
find the unknown information of “?” in the ontology knowledge base. If the question is a positive-negative sentence, for example “知不知 道越南的首都是哪里?”. After the preprocessing, we can get “越南/ns 首都/n ”, which can be expressed like <ns, n, ?>. Then the information of ns and n can help find the unknown information. If the question is a select question like “富国岛和昆仑岛哪个人口多?”, it will be turned into “富国岛/ns 昆仑岛/ns 人口/n”. It can be expressed like ?<ns, ns, n>. Then we need to look into the ontology knowledge base to see the relations of them and find out the answer.4 Experiment and prospectFrom the analysis of the four types of questions, we can roughly list the patterns of Chinese questions and the formalize them.In order to test the performance of the question processing method, we need to build a demo question answering system. First, an ontology knowledge base has to be built. In this research, we build an ontology knowledge base about the information of the military of Vietnam.When a new question comes, it needs to be preprocessed. Segmentation tool is used to segment the words and tag the part-of-speech of each word. We define the datatypes in the ontology knowledge base as DT, and the adjectives of the highest level as MAX and MIN. Then according to the analysis in the last part, the formalized question template is used to match the processed sentence, and the unknown information can be found in the ontology knowledge base. At last, the information extracted from the ontology knowledge base is rearranged and output the final answer. Figure 1 shows the formalized question templates that we summarized according to the characteristic of questions of the domain.Figure 1. Part of the question patterns and the formalized question templatesBecause the ontology knowledge base of Vietnam’s military information has some confidentiality that is not proper to expose, the QA system cannot go public here. But we have tested the performance of the system, and found that the question processing method we proposed is useful to improve the performance of the system. And the question answering system brings a lot of convenience for the users studying on the domain of military of Vietnam.The next step of our research is to perfect the analysis of the Chinese questions and improve the question processing method. Also, the ontology knowledge base has to be expanded to get a higher recall and precision ratio.References[1] 赵赟. 基于本体的问答查询系统关键技术的 研究与实现. 南京: 东南大学, 2004.[2] 骆正华, 樊孝忠, 刘林. 本体论在自动问答系 统中的应用. 计算机工程与应用, 2005,(32):229-232.[3] 刘亮亮, 林乐宇. 基于查询模板的特定领域中 文问答系统的研究与实现. 江苏科技大学学 报自然科学版, 2011,25(2):163-168.[4] 李伟刚. 基于本体知识库和 FAQ 的多策略问 
答系统研究. 洛阳:解放军外国语学院,2013.[5] Nyberg E, Mitamura T, Carbonell J G, et al. The Javelin Question-Answering System at TREC 2002. Computer Science Department, 2002:322.[6] Li S, Zhang J, Huang X, et al. SemanticComputation in a Chinese Question-Answering System. Journal of Computer Science and Technology, 2002, 17(6): 933-939.[7] Fleischman M, Hovy E, Echihabi A. Offline Strategies for Online Question Answering: Answering Questions Before They Are Asked. Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics-Volume 1. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2003: 1-7.[8] Lopez V, Uren V, Motta E, et al. AquaLog: An ontology-driven question answering system for organizational semantic intranets. Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, 2007, 5(2): 72-105.[9] Lopez V, Pasin M, Motta E. Aqualog: An ontology-portable question answering system for the semantic web. The Semantic Web: Research and Applications. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005: 546-562.[10] Srihari R, Li W. A Question Answering System Supported by Information Extraction. Proceedings of the sixth conference on Applied natural language processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2000: 166-172.[11] SaiasJ,QuaresmaP.AProposalforanOntology Supported News Reader and Question-answer System. Proceedings of the sixth conference on applied natural language processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2000: 166-172.[12] Moldovan D, Harabagiu S, Pasca M, et al. The Structure and Performance of an Open-Domain Question Answering System. Proceedings of the 38th Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistic. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2000: 563-570.