AbstractThe notion of logophoricity has long played a crucial role in understanding the co-referential relations between certain anaphoric expres- sions cross-linguistically, especially for long- distance anaphors violating a locality con- straint and syntactic prominence conditions within the framework of pure syntactic ac- counts. However, Pan (2001) has shown that the long-distance binding of Chinese ziji should not be treated with the logophoric ac- counts in some aspects. This paper revisits Pan’s (2001) puzzle, which arises from the ability of ziji to serve as a logophor, in order to call attention to what the alternative to this view might be, and proposes a solution to it through the notion of empathy, in Kuno and Kaburaki’s (1977) sense of the term, so that long-distance anaphors, which are not fully covered in terms of logophoricity, can be rec- onciled with other East Asian languages, such as Japanese zibun and Korean caki, in terms of a unified treatment.1 IntroductionIt has been widely noted that what licenses the long- distance binding is closely related to the logophoric property of reflexives. More specifically, since Sells’ (1987) logophoric approach on Icelandic and Japa- nese, many researchers (Yoon 1989, Huang and Liu 2001, among others) have argued that the binding behaviors of long-distance anaphors, such as those in Korean and Chinese, are attributed to the logo- phoric use of reflexives and that they carry the de facto identical function.Huang and Liu (2001) point out that the three distinct roles in discourse, which are source, self,1 Pan (1997) first proposed that the Chinese long-distance anaphor ziji can be treated as a de se anaphor, resulting in an obligatory de se construal.and pivot originally coined by Sells (1987), for the logophoric use of the Chinese long-distance ziji are a necessary but not a sufficient condition for long- distance anaphors. For this reason, they suggest that the notion of attitude de se be introduced to the long- distance anaphor ziji.1However, despite a close link between the long- distance anaphor and logophoricity as a licensing condition for the referent it refers to, it has been re- peatedly observed that logophoric accounts of long- distance anaphors have not been fully successful, facing a variety of counterexamples. In addition, in contrast to logophoric accounts for ziji binding, Pan (2001) strongly argues that the long-distance anaphor ziji should not be treated with logophoric accounts since some properties of ziji are not com- patible with logophoricity. Pan’s view is not incor- rect. Indeed, the definition that lies at the heart of logophoricity is not satisfactory to cover every as- pect of long-distance anaphors, especially in Chi- nese, since they are used as a versatile tool.This paper revisits Pan’s (2001) puzzle, which arises from the ability of ziji to serve as a logophor, in order to call attention to what the alternative to this view might be, and proposes a solution to it through the notion of empathy, in Kuno and Ka- buraki’s (1977) sense of the term, so that the long- distance anaphors, which are not fully covered in terms of logophoricity, can be reconciled with other East Asian languages, such as Japanese zibun and Korean caki, in terms of a unified treatment.The structure of this paper is as follows. We dis- cuss Pan’s puzzle in Section 2, describing which kinds of binding behaviors in Chinese are not com- patible with the properties of logophoricity. Section 3 argues that the term empathy should be accepted in order to complement the logophoric accounts ofPan’s (2001) puzzle revisitedHyunjun ParkCity University of Hong Kong tudorgepark@gmail.com 
the long-distance bound anaphor ziji. Section 4 re- visits Pan’s puzzle and describes that his claim is partly the case in certain environments, and that it can be accounted for with the empathic accounts. Thus, we argue that the long-distance anaphor ziji in Chinese should be divided into two categories of logophor and empathy. Finally, we conclude our work in Section 5.2 Pan’s (2001) puzzleFollowing logophoric analysis, many scholars have tried to account for the peculiar phenomena of long- distance anaphors cross-linguistically. It has been observed in the literature (Clements 1975, Sells 1987, Kuno 1987, Stirling 1993, Pearson 2013, among others) that a logophoric pronoun commonly manifests the three properties listed in (1).(1) a. It can always have the source as its ante- cedent.b. It cannot have the first person pronoun as its antecedent.c. It does not exhibit the blocking effect. (Pan 2001: 290)Interestingly, Pan (2001) proposes the above prop- erties as evidence against the treatment of ziji as a logophor. More specifically, if ziji functions as a logophor in a certain reported discourse context, it should exhibit the three properties which are the characteristics of a logophoric pronoun. However, it genuinely seems to be the case that the binding be- haviors of ziji do not show any of them. To illustrate this point, this section reviews Pan’s puzzle for log- ophoric ziji.2.1 SourceAccording to Pan (2001), ziji co-referential with the long-distance antecedent cannot always have the noun phrase carrying the role of source as its ante- cedent, though logophoric pronouns can. The fol- lowing examples illustrate this point.(2) a. Amai se tso Kofij gbↄ be Ama hear from Kofi side thatyèi/j-xↄ nunana.Log-receive gift‘Amai heard from Kofij that shei/hej had re-ceived a gift.’b. Mei-se tso Kofij gbↄ be yè*i/j-xↄPro-hear from Kofi side that Log-receive nunana.gift(3)‘Ii heard from Kofij that *I/hej had received a gift.’ (Clements 1975: 158-9)a. Lisii shuo Zhangsanj de shu Lisi say Zhangsan DE book hai-le zijii/j.hurt-Perf self‘Lisi says that Zhangsan’s book hurt him/himself.’b. Zhangsani cong Lisij nar tingshuo Zhangsan from Lisi there hearnaben shu hai-le zijii/*j.that-CL book hurt-Perf self‘Zhangsan heard from Lisi that that bookhurt himself.’ (Pan 2001: 291) While the logophoric pronoun yè in Ewe, one of the West African languages, in (2a) can be co-refer- ential with either the matrix subject Ama or oblique Kofi, which functions as the source of the given re- portive context, that in (2b) can only refer to Kofi with the thematic function of source, but not the first person pronoun me ‘I’. That is, the sentence in (2b) is unacceptable when the first person pronoun me ‘I’ is an antecedent of the logophoric pronoun yè because the referent of a logophoric pronoun should be in the third person. Similarly, the matrix subject Lisi in (3a) is understood as the source of the re- ported speech and thus can be a candidate for the possible antecedents of ziji as well as possessive Zhangsan in the complement clause. In contrast to (2a), on the other hand, the oblique Lisi in (3b) can- not be the antecedent of ziji in spite of its source role in the reported discourse. The following sen-tence is compatible with this idea.(4) Woi cong Lisij nar tingshuo laoshiI from Lisi there hear teacherma-le zijii/*j.criticize-Perf self‘I heard from Lisi that the teacher criticizedme.’Ziji in (4) is co-referential with the first personpronoun wo ‘I’ rather than with the source Lisi. Therefore, the long-distance bound ziji cannot al- ways refer to a source of communication, as in Sells’ (1987) system, and thus in this case logophoric ziji does not seem to be a sufficient condition to inde- pendently license its antecedent, unlike logophoric pronouns.
2.2 First person pronounPan (2001) recognizes that ziji can refer to the first person pronoun wo ‘I’ at a long-distance with ease in a given discourse context, but this is an entirely different property from that which logophoric pro- nouns exhibit, as exemplified in (5).speech when referring to the attitude holder with re- spect to the propositional complement clause, though they can be replaced by the first person pro- noun I in direct discourse. Moreover, the logophoric pronouns are complementary with first person pro- nouns in direct speech, which means that the logo- phoric pronouns are restricted to having third person antecedents, and cannot have first person pronoun antecedents. This point can be illustrated by the fol- lowing sentences.(8) Kofi gblↄ na wo be yè-a-dyi ga-a Kofi speak to Pro that Log-T-seek money-D na wo.for Pro‘Kofii said to them that hei would seek themoney for them.’(9) Kofi gblↄ na wo be: ma-dyi ga-a(5)a. Woi zhidao Lisij bu xihuan ziji?i/j.I know Lisi not like self‘I knew that Lisi did not like me/himself.’b. Woi yizhi yiwei Zhangsanj xihuan zijii/j, I so-far think Zhangsan like selfkeshi wo cuo le. but I wrong Perf‘I always thought that Zhangsan liked me/himself, but I was wrong.’c. Woi bu xihuan Lisij guan zijii/j de I not like Lisi interfere self DE shi.Matter‘I don’t like Lisi interfering in my/his (own) business.’d. Nii xihuan Lisij guan zijii/j de shiYou like ma?QLisi interfere self DE matterKofi speak to Pro that I-seekna mi.for Pro‘Kofii said to them: “I’ll seek the money foryou.”’ (Clements 1975: 152) The sentences in (8) and (9) have shown that the Ewe language makes a sharp distinction between in- direct speech and direct speech. In other words, the logophoric pronoun yè is exclusively used in the re- portive context, as in (8), and the first person pro- noun ma, which is the complex form consisting of the first person pronoun me and tense marker a-, as in (9), is normally used to refer to the external speaker in direct speech.2.3 Blocking effectThe long-distance binding of ziji exhibits the block- ing effect in which first and second person elements block the long-distance binding of ziji by all the pos- sible third person antecedents, while the long-dis- tance anaphors in the other languages, such as Japanese2 and Korean respectively, do not, as exem- plified in (10) through (12).(10) a. Zhangsani renwei Lisij neiyang zuo Zhangsan think Lisi that-way dodui zijii/j buli.to self not-beneficial‘Zhangsani felt that Lisi’sj acting that waydidn’t do himi/j any good.’when the addition of a first person pronoun results in conflict- ing Empathy Foci.‘Do you like Lisi interfering in your (own) business?’ (Pan 2001: 283) According to Pearson (2013), the logophoric pronoun yè in Ewe preferentially refers to a third person as its antecedent, whereas referring to a first or second person antecedent is degraded, as illus-trated in (6) and (7).(6) a. *M xɔse be yè nyi sukuvi nyoe de.Pro believethat Log Cop student good Art ‘I believe that I am a good student.’b. M xɔse be m nyi sukuvi nyoe de. Pro believe that Pro Cop student good Art‘I believe that I am a good student.’(7) a. *O xɔse be yè nyi sukuvi nyoe de. Pro believethat Log Cop student good Art ‘You believe that you are a good student.’b. O xɔse be o nyi sukuvi nyoe de. Pro believethat Pro Cop student good Art‘You believe that you are a good student.’ (Pearson 2013:449-50) Clements (1975) also claims that logophoric pro- nouns in Ewe mainly appear to introduce indirect2 It has long been noted that there is no blocking effect in Jap- anese zibun binding. However, Nishigauchi (2014) indicates that the blocking effect can be observed even in Japanese,money-D 
b. Zhangsani renwei wo/nij neiyang zuo Zhangsan think I/you that-way do dui ziji*i/j buli.to self not-beneficial‘Zhangsani felt that my/yourj acting that way didn’t do him*i/me/youj any good.’(Pan 2001: 281) (11) a. Tarooi-wa boku-ga zibuni-o but-taTaroo-Top I-Nom self-Acc hit-Past koto-o mada urande-i-ru.fact-Acc still resent-Asp-Pres ‘Tarooi still resents that I hit himi.’b. Tarooi-wa boku-ga zibuni-ni okane-o Taroo-Top I-Nom self-Dat money-Acc kasi-ta koto-o sukkarilend-Past that-Acc completelywasure-ta rasii.forget-Past seem‘Taroo seems to have completely forgottenthat I had loaned self money.’(Kuno 1978: 212-213)(12) a. Chelswui-nun nayj-ka cakii/*j-lul Chelswu-Top I-Nom self-AccPiphanhay-ess-tako sayngkakha-n-ta. criticize-Past-Comp think-Pres-Decl ‘Chelswu thinks that I criticized him/*my-self.’b. Nai-nun Chelswuj-ka caki*i/j-lulI-Top Chelswu-Nom self-Acc Piphanhay-ess-tako sayngkakha-n-ta. criticize-Past-Comp think-Pres-Decl‘I think that Chelswu criticized *me/him-self.’As a matter of fact, the blocking effect is not the property of logophoric pronouns, since logophoric pronouns are necessarily construed as referring to the reported speaker who is the attitude holder and this attitude holder is preferentially occupied by a third person. The key evidence from Ewe is shown in (13).(13) a. Kofii xↄ agbalẽ tso gbↄ-nyej beKofi receive letter from side-Pro that yèi/*j-a-va me kpe na m. Log-T-come cast block for Pro‘Kofii got a letter from me saving that heishould come cast blocks for me.’b. Mei-xↄ agbalẽ tso Kofij gbↄ bePro-receive letter from Kofi side that mai-va me kpe na yèj. Pro/T-come cast block for Pro‘Ii got a letter from Kofij saving that heishould come cast blocks for mei.’ (Clements 1975: 159)In addition, the notion of logophoricity cannot ac- count for the long-distance bound ziji observed in extensional contexts, though it can partly explain the occurrences of ziji in intensional contexts such as attitude reports or reported propositions, as shown in (14).(14)Zhangsani mingling Lisij [S PRO gei zijii/j Zhangsan order Lisi to self guahuzi].shave‘Zhangsan ordered Lisi to shave him/himself.’ (Pan 2001: 291) Based on the evidence of the above example, Pan (2001) strongly argues that the long-distance bound ziji cannot be fully covered in terms of logophoric- ity. The next section is devoted to resolving thispuzzle.3 Solution through empathyWe consider that the theory of empathy plays an im- portant role in many aspects of the interpretation of long-distance anaphors observed in Chinese. The underlying assumption is that linguistic expression may capture the speaker’s attitude toward its partic- ipants in describing a state of affairs. The concept of empathy was first introduced into linguistic analysis by Kuno and Kaburaki (1977), and the notion has been developed to account for a host of linguistic phenomena that otherwise defy unified explanation within the framework of formal linguistics (Kuno 1978, 1987, Yokoyama 1980, Oshima 2004, 2007, Wang and Pan 2014, 2015, among others).3.1 Notion of empathyKuno and Kaburaki (1977) vividly describe the term empathy with respect to the camera angle chosen by a director when shooting a scene. Similarly, a speaker makes the same kind of decision when s/he describes an event or state. For instance, in describ- ing a hitting situation involving a man named John and his wife Mary, the speaker can say it in numer- ous ways, depending on the different positions which s/he takes, some of which are shown in (15). (15) a. John hit Mary.b. John hit his wife.c. Mary’s husband hit her.(Kuno and Kaburaki 1977: 627)
According to Kuno and Kaburaki (1977), these sen- tences differ from each other in reference to the speaker’s view point or camera angle, though all the examples have the same logical content. In other word, in (15a), the event is being described objec- tively. That is, the camera is placed at equal distance from both John and Mary. However, the speaker is describing the event with his standpoint closer to John in (15b) and closer to Mary in (15c), respec- tively.Kuno (1987) defines the notion of empathy, as illustrated in (16).(16) Empathy is the speaker’s identification,which may vary in degree, with a per- son/thing that participates in the event or state that he describes in a sentence.Degree of Empathy: The degree of the speaker’s empathy with x, E(x), ranges from 0 to 1, with E(x)=1 signifying his total iden- tification with x, and E(x)=0 signifying a to- tal lack of identification.(Kuno 1987: 206) To see how the empathy works in the sentence,consider the following examples in Japanese.(17) Taroo-wa Hanako-ni hon-o yat-ta.Taroo-Top Hanako-Dat book-Acc give-Past‘Taroo gave Hanako a book.’(18) Taroo-wa Hanako-ni hon-o kure-ta.Taroo-Top Hanako-Dat book-Acc give-Past‘Taroo gave Hanako a book.’As noted by Kuno (1987), Japanese has a built-in mechanism for overtly specifying what the speaker’s standpoint is when an event is described, which includes special verbs such as giving verbs yaru and kureru which express the empathy rela- tionship. The speaker describes (17) from Taroo’s standpoint and (18) from Hanako’s point of view. In other words, the agent-centered verb yaru is used when the speaker empathizes more with the referent of the subject, whereas the beneficiary-centered verb kureru is used when the speaker empathizes more with the referent of the dative object rather than with that of the subject object.Assuming that the verbs such as hear from and receive from in English require that the speaker’s empathy be placed on the referent as the goal occur- ring in subject position, rather than the agent in ob- ject position of the preposition from, the sentences3 This is the revised version offered by Oshima (2006: 169).in (19) and (20) seem highly compatible with empa- thy-based accounts.(19) (20)John told Mary that Bill was sick.Mary heard from John that Bill was sick.(Kuno and Kaburaki 1977: 645) The two sentences in (19) and (20) fundamentally deliver identical situations in their logical content, but they seem to differ from each other in the stand- point from which the speaker has intentionally cho- sen to describe the events, and empathize more with a specific person. Thus, it can be easily presupposed that the speaker empathizes more with John than with Mary in (19), while the speaker empathizesmore with Mary than with John in (20).3.2 Japanese zibun as an empathy locusGiven the fundamental notion of empathy we have discussed so far, Kuno (1987) has further formal- ized some possible empathy relationships within a sentence, based on semantic or pragmatic scales, where a higher ranked participant tends to be much more empathized with than a lower ranked one, as shown below.(21) Surface Structure Empathy Hierarchy: It is easier for the speaker to empathize with the referent of the subject than with the referent of other NPs in the sentence.E(subject) > E(other NPs)(22) Speech Act Empathy Hierarchy: The speakercannot empathize with someone else more than with himself/herself.E(speaker) > E(others)(23) Ban on Conflicting Empathy Foci: A single sentence cannot contain logical conflicts in empathy relationships.(24) Animacy Empathy Hierarchy: It is easier for the speaker to empathize with animate ob- jects than with inanimate objects.3(Kuno 1987: 207-212)Kuno and Kaburaki (1977) remark that Japanese reflexive pronoun zibun can be characterized as an empathy expression, namely an empathy locus re- ferring to the participant with which the speaker rep- resents his or her high degree of empathy, as shownin (25) and (26).(25) *Tarooi-wa Hanako-ga zibuni-niTaroo-Top Hanako-Nom self-Dat yat-ta hon-o yon-da. give-Past book-Acc read-Past 
‘Tarooi read the book Hanako gave to himi.’ (26) Tarooi-wa Hanako-ga zibuni-ni kure-taTaroo-Top Hanako-Nom self-Dat give-Past hon-o yon-da.book-Acc read-Past‘Tarooi read the book Hanako gave to himi.’(Oshima 2006: 174) As mentioned earlier, according to the Ban on Con- flicting Empathy Foci, proposed by Kuno and Ka- buraki (1977), the empathy relationships within a single sentence must be consistent with each other. We have observed that the giving verbs, such as yaru and kureru, in Japanese can overtly specify the speaker’s empathy with different participants in his or her description of events or states produced in a given context. Hence, the use of kureru indicates the relatively higher degree of the speaker’s empathy with the recipient, but the use of yaru represents em- pathy with the agent. The reflexive form zibun, on the other hand, can also function as representing the empathy locus by empathizing with its referent. More specifically, the speaker is allowed to use zibun to refer to its antecedent Taroo as his or her empathy locus in both (25) and (26). In this connec- tion, the speaker’s empathy locus of zibun in (26) is compatible with that of kureru, but not that of zibun in (25). Based on this fact, (26) is acceptable, but (25) is unacceptable. Eventually, the conflicting em- pathy foci in a single sentence yield the contrast be-tween (25) and (26).At this point, it is necessary to mention that thespeaker’s empathy can play a leading role in the way that it provides a lucid explanation of the long- distance anaphors, especially in East Asian lan- guages such as Chinese ziji, Japanese zibun, and Ko- rean caki. Moreover, Oshima (2004, 2006, 2007) claims that the concepts between logophor and em- pathy should, strictly speaking, be distinguished in terms of the licensing conditions of each use. Such a subtle distinction could be explained by the fol- lowing expression.(27) ɖεvi-ai xↄ tohehe be child-Det receive punishment so.that yèi-a-ga-da alakpa ake o. Log-T-P-tell lie again not‘The childi received punishment so that hei wouldn’t tell lies again.’(Clements 1975: 160) Clements (1975) accounts for the use of logophoric pronoun yè in (27) with an extended logophoric usesuch that yè represents the intention of its anteced- ent. That is to say that the child voluntarily received punishment to prevent future wrongdoing. However, it is worth noting that there is no attitude predicate in (27). Consider the related examples in East Asian languages, repeated here in (29) from (26).(28) Zongtongi qing woj zuo zai zijii/*j de president ask I sit at self DE shenbian. (Chinese)side‘The presidenti asked mej to sit beside himi/myself*j.’ (Xu 1993: 136)(29) Tarooi-wa Hanako-ga zibuni-ni kure-ta Taroo-Top Hanako-Nom self-Dat give-Past hon-o yon-da. (Japanese)book-Acc read-Past‘Tarooi read the book Hanako gave to himi.’ (30) Chelswui-nun Youngheej-ka cakii-eykeyChelswu-Top Younghee-Nom self-Dat cwu-n chayk-ul ilk-ess-ta. (Korean) give-Abn book-Acc read-Past-Decl ‘Chelswui read the book Younghee gave tohimi.’Considering the notion of logophoric pronouns, which are always co-referential with the author of a secondary discourse associated with an intensional context, the reason that the expressions observed in (28) through (30) are accounted for, in terms of a linguistic device similar to logophoricity, is not a proper explanation. These expressions are more em- pathy-loaded than logophoric.4 Pan’s (2001) puzzle revisitedThis section revisits Pan’s (2001) puzzle, which arises from the ability of ziji to serve as a logophor and proposes a solution to it through the notion of empathy.Given the semantic nature and discourse effects of the empathy relation in a given discourse context, it is expected that languages other than Japanese may make use of similar mechanisms to encode lin- guistic representation of the empathy relation, though in what domains and how they are postulated in syntax may differ within and between languages. Recall that the logophoric pronouns can show up only in the scope of an attitude predicate, since the expressions in question are a sort of variable that is obligatorily bound by the attitude holder associated
with such a predicate. However, in reality, the be- haviors of the long-distance anaphor ziji are much more extensive than expected.4.1 SourceAs we saw earlier, ziji bound by a long-distance an- tecedent cannot always have the noun phrase carry- ing the role of source as its antecedent, though logophoric pronouns can.(31) a. Zhangsani cong Lisij nar tingshuo Zhangsan from Lisi there hearnaben shu hai-le zijii/*j.that-CL book hurt-Perf self‘Zhangsan heard from Lisi that that bookhurt himself.’ (Pan 2001: 291) b. Woi cong Lisij nar tingshuoZhangsan from Lisi there hearlaoshi ma-le zijii/*j.teacher criticize-Perf self‘I heard from Lisi that the teacher criti-cized me.’While the logophoric pronoun yè in (2a) can be co- referential with either Ama or Kofi, that in (2b) may refer only to Kofi with the thematic function of source, but not the first person pronoun me ‘I’. On the other hand, Chinese ziji, as shown in (31a) and (31b), can only refer to the matrix subject other than the source of the reported discourse regardless of person. In this regard, we can employ the Surface Structure Empathy Hierarchy, which shows that the speaker’s empathy with the referent of the subject is ranked higher than any other individual, to account for this sort of behavior of ziji. In addition, another advantage is that the use of long-distance anaphors in extensional contexts may be compatible with the empathic interpretation, as shown in (14).The logophoricity account for ziji cannot be pos- tulated here because the distribution of the logo- phoric pronoun is strictly restricted to the scope of attitude predicates, as exemplified in (32).(32) a. *Kofi wↄ be Marie yè dzo. Kofi do that Mary Log leave‘Kofi caused Mary to leave.’ b. Kofi wↄ be Marie dzo.Kofi do that Mary leave4 A reviewer points out how we can explain the ambiguity in the co-referential relations: given the distinction between logo- phoric and empathic use, we assume that the long-distance ziji refers to either the internal speaker as the attitude holder or the external speaker’s empathy locus in the discourse context.‘Kofi caused Mary to leave.’(Pearson 2013: 445)The sentence in (32a) shows that when the verb which subcategorizes a clause complement is not an attitude predicate, the logophoric pronoun such as yè cannot be used to refer to the referent as an atti- tude holder. Thus, (32a) is unacceptable, but (32b) is acceptable because there is no logophoric pro- noun in the sentence.44.2 First person pronounAccounting for the distribution of logophoric pro- nouns may be able to offer a vital clue in solving the puzzle of the qualification of ziji to perform as a log- ophor, posed by Pan (2001). It has generally been noted that logophoric pronouns always refer to the agent of reported utterance or thought. In addition, as Yoon (1989) points out, the use of a logophor to indirectly report the thoughts or feelings of a first person, who is the speaker, or a second person, who is the addressee, seems to be highly unnatural.5 For this reason, logophoric pronouns in Ewe mainly ap- pear to introduce indirect speech when referring to the attitude holder with respect to the propositional complement clause, though they can be replaced by the first person pronoun I in direct discourse, as shown in (8) and (9).As we can see from the examples above, the role of logophoric pronouns and first person pronouns somewhat resemble each other with respect to being used as first person forms except that while first per- son pronouns refer to the actual speaker in direct discourse, logophoric pronouns refer to the reported speaker in indirect discourse. If this is correct, it can be said that logophoric pronouns are in complemen- tary distribution with first person pronouns and thus the two forms never occur in exactly the same envi- ronment, but in mutually-exclusive environments.Given the properties of the distribution of logo- phors observed so far, it seems unreasonable to con- clude that the following sentences can be correctly predicted according to the licensing condition on logophoricity. Consider the examples of (5c) and (5d).5 Yoon further argues that the binding behaviors of Korean caki fit nicely into the notion of logophoricity since caki is not compatible with first or second person antecedents. 
In these examples, ziji can take the matrix subjects wo ‘I’ and ni ‘you’ at a long-distance as its anteced- ents. However, note that they are not construed as referring to the attitude holder because the verb such as like is not an attitude predicate. Rather, these sen- tences seem to be more readily accounted for in terms of empathy relation rather than logophoricity. If the empathy locus is anchored to the speaker, then ziji can be co-referential with the first person pro- noun wo ‘I’ referring to the external speaker, as in (5c). If the empathy locus is anchored to the ad- dressee, then ziji can refer to the second person pro- noun ni ‘you’ referring to the addressee, as in (5d). Therefore, this empathy relation is compatible with the Speech Act Empathy Hierarchy.4.3 Blocking effectRecall that Pan (2001) claims that there is no rea- sonable way to explain the blocking effect of the long-distance binding ziji by means of the property of logophoric use. This is because what appears to be the blocking effect in Chinese is due to the pres- ence of a first person pronoun in the sentence. From the discussion thus far, however, it can be said that the logophoric pronoun is not used to refer to a first person pronoun in the reported discourse. The in- compatibility with the blocking effect in the logo- phoric environment is confirmed by the sentences in (13). There are no blocking effects though first per- son pronouns, referring to the external speaker, oc- cur either in the complement clause or in the matrix clause, since the logophoric pronoun yè only refers to the third person rather than the first person pro- noun.Moreover, it is worth making a contrast between the logophoric and empathic use of Japanese zibun, as exemplified in (33) and (34).(33) Tarooi-wa boku-ga zibuni-o but-taTaroo-Top I-Nom self-Acc hit-Past koto-o mada urande-i-ru.fact-Acc still resent-Asp-Pres ‘Tarooi still resents that I hit himi.’(34) *Tarooi-wa boku-ga zibuni-ni kasi-ta Taroo-Top I-Nom self-Dat lend-Past okane-o nakusite-simat-ta rasii. money-Acc lose-end.up-Past it.seems‘It seems that Tarooi lost the money I lent tohimi.’ (Kuno 1978: 212-3) Kuno (1978) points out that zibun occurring in the scope of the purely logophoric environment, as in(33), can be construed as referring to the attitude holder, even though it conflicts with what empathy locus constraints require within the propositional complement clause. In contrast to (33), on the other hand, the sentence in (34) does not occur in the log- ophoric environment. Thus, the unacceptability of (34) is not due to the presence of the first person pronoun but due to the conflicting empathy foci. In other words, there are two empathy loci in a single sentence. One is the first person boku ‘I’ by using an agent-centered verb kasu ‘lend’ and the other is zibun referring to the matrix subject Taroo. Accord- ing to the Ban on Conflicting Empathy Foci, a single sentence cannot contain logical conflicts in empathy relationships.Conflicting empathy foci trigger the blocking ef- fect in Chinese as well. In other words, the blocking effect is not attributed to the person feature mis- match, but to the empathy relationship between the participants in a given discourse context. Therefore, we propose that the blocking effect of ziji does not exist in logophoric environments, but occurs in em- pathy environments. This analysis can unify the blocking effect observed not only in Chinese but also in Japanese and Korean, and more clearly ac- counts for why there is a blocking effect in these languages.5 ConclusionAdopting the view from Oshima (2004, 2007) and Wang and Pan’s (2014, 2015) arguments, we pro- pose that the long-distance anaphor ziji should be divided into two categories: logophor and empathy. By doing so, we can properly reconcile the seem- ingly different binding behaviors in East Asian lan- guages, such as Chinese ziji, Japanese zibun, and Korean caki, with a unified treatment through the empathy theory.Acknowledgments:We appreciate the valuable suggestions and com- ments of the anonymous reviewers of the PACLIC 29 conference.References:Clements, George N. 1975. The logophoric pronoun in Ewe: Its role in discourse. Journal of West African Languages 2: 141-177.
Huang, C.-T. James and C.-S. Luther Liu. 2001. Logo- phoricity, attitudes, and ziji at the interface, In Long- distance reflexives:Syntax and semantics 33, ed. by Peter Cole, Gabriella Hermon, and C.-T. James Huang, 141-195. New York: Academic Press.Kuno, Susumu and Etsuko Kaburaki. 1977. Empathy and syntax. Linguistic Inquiry 8: 627-672.Kuno, Susumu. 1978. Danwa no bunpoo [grammar of discourse]. Tokyo: Taishukan.Kuno, Susumu. 1987. Functional syntax: Anaphora, discourse and empathy. Chicago: University of Chi- cago Press.Nishigauchi, Taisuke. 2014. Reflexive binding: aware- ness and empathy from a syntactic point of view. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 23: 157-206.Oshima, David Y. 2004. Zibun revisited: empathy, logo- phoricity, and binding. University of Washington Working Papers in Linguistics 22: 175-190.Oshima, David Y. 2006. Perspectives in reported dis- course. PhD Dissertation, Stanford University.Oshima, David Y. 2007. On empathic and logophoric binding. Research on Language and Computation 5: 19-35.Pan, Haihua. 2001. Why the blocking effect? In Long- distance reflexives:Syntax and semantics 33, ed. by Peter Cole, Gabriella Hermon, and C.-T. James Huang, 279-316. New York: Academic Press.Park, Hyunjun. 2015. Logophor, empathy, and long-dis- tance anaphors in East Asian languages. PhD Dis- sertation, City University of Hong Kong.Pearson, Hazel. 2013. The sense of self: Topics in the semantics of de se expressions. PhD Dissertation, Harvard University.Sells, Peter. 1987. Aspects of logophoricity. Linguistic Inquiry 18: 445-479.Stirling, Lesley. 1993. Switch reference and discourse representation. Cambridge; Cambridge University Press.Wang, Yingying and Haihua Pan. 2014. A note on the non-de se interpretation of attitude reports. Language 90: 746-754.Wang, Yingying and Haihua Pan. 2015. Empathy and Chinese long-distance reflexive ziji-remarks on Giorgi (2006, 2007). Natural Language and Linguis- tic Theory.Xu, Liejiong. 1993. The long-distance binding of ziji. Journal of Chinese Linguistics 21: 123-142.Yokoyama, Olga T. 1980. Studies in Russian functional syntax. in Harvard Studies in Syntax and Semantics 3, ed. by S. Kuno, 451-774. Cambridge.Yoon, Jeong-Me. 1989. Long-distance anaphors in Ko- rean and their cross-linguistic implications. In Pa- pers from the 25th Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, ed. by Caroline Wiltshire, Ran- dolph Graczyk, & Music Bradley, 479-495. Chi- cago: Chicago Linguistic Society.