 1AbstractGrammar is the key and difficult part in teaching Chinese as a second language (TCSL). However, the research work on the knowledge-base for grammar teaching in TCSL is scarce, which cannot meet the demands of the development of Chinese International Education. This paper introduces the construction of Chinese Grammar Points Knowledge(CGPK) and its application. Firstly, introduces attributes setting in Static Description Knowledge- base. Secondly, discusses the annotation of sentences with grammar points in the corpus. Finally, presents the application of CGPK in a Chinese teaching platform and indicates it is effective in TCSL.Keywords: corpus; annotation; grammar points; TCSLIntroductionThe Construction of Chinese Grammar Points Knowledge-base and Its Application in TCSLTan XiaopingInstitute of Chinese Information Processing Beijing Normal UniversityBejing, China tanxiaoping82@hotmail.comYang LijiaoInstitute of Chinese Information Processing Beijing Normal UniversityBejing, China yanglijiao@mail.bnu.edu.cnThe Grammar Resources Database for International Chinese Education(Peng Weiming, Song Jihua et al.,2014) are two typical grammar knowledge-base for TCSL. The first one chose more than 1000 constructions and described their features. The second one reconstructed the grammar points system and researched on identifying them automatically. However, we can do more work in the aspect of describing grammar points and annotating grammar information in the corpus for TCSL, which can help the teachers more directly. In this paper, we introduced the content, structure of the grammar points knowledge-base and its application in a Chinese teaching platform, which could help the teacher in preparing lessons and researching of Chinese textbook.The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the related work. We introduces the construction of CGPK in section 3. In section 4, we discusses the application of the CGPK in a Chinese teaching platform. Section 5 includes conclusions and our future work.2 Related WorkThe knowledge-base is widely used in natural language processing at present. The famous knowledge-base includes the WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), The Grammatical Knowledge-base of Contemporary Chinese(Yu & Zhu et al., 1996). However, Yu Shi-wen, Zhu Xue-feng(2014) notes that the knowledge-base could also be used in TCSL.With the development of computer technology and corpus linguistics, the Chinese language resources have constructed for nearly 40 years, such as CCL corpus and BCC corpus, which have been promoted the research in Chinese language. However, the Chinese language resources for TCSL were scarce. The Chinese inter-language corpus are the main language resources in the area of TCSL, which can not totally meet the teachers’ needs. The Chinese Construction Database and
 In recent years, several language resources for TCSL have been built, which could be divided into 3 types. The first one is the inter-language corpus, such as the HSK Dynamic Composition Corpus, which could only help teacher to analyze the inter- language. The second is the Chinese Textbook Corpus, such as The Global Chinese Textbook Corpus, however, most of the Chinese text book corpus are raw corpus. Little research work was on how to annotate the corpus for TCSL, the value of them have not been developed completely. The third is knowledge-base, such as The Grammar Resources Database. However, little attention was focused on building the language resources of grammar for TCSL and few the language resources of grammar could be used by teachers directly.The aim of this paper is to provide a Chinese grammar points knowledge-base for teacher, which could help teacher to prepare lessons conveniently. The data we used in this work are from classic Chinese textbooks and HSK exma texts, which contains 141464 sentences in total. The contentand the difficult level are more suitable for learners.and complex sentences, such as “budan...erqie...”(不但......而且......).Two factors affected the selection of grammar pionts. The first one is the high frequency in TCSL. We obtain the frequency information by caculating the grammar points in three classic Chinese textbooks. Is it easy to get sentence with grammar points from the general Chinese corpus? This is the second factor. For example, the sentences with grammar point of “cai...jiu...”(才......就......) are harder to find in general Chinese corpus than the sentences with grammar point of “cai”( 才 ). Because retrieve accuracy of “cai...jiu...” is much lower than “cai” in general Chinese corpus, the teacher is esay to find sentence with “cai” and is hard to find sentences with “cai...jiu...”. The Dynamic Annotated CorpusThe dynamic annotated corpus is designed for the static description knowlege-base. The attributes’ characters in static description knowledge-base could be reflected in dynamicannotated corpus.There are 95592 sentences with the selectedgrammar points in the annotated corpus. All the sentences are a annotated from the aspect of semantic and syntactic information. There are three main functions of the annotated corpus. The first is to check the description of the grammar poins is correct or not, we modified the static description knowledge-base by the annotated results if it was necessary. The second is providing the senmantic and syntactic frequency information for the static description knowledge. The third one is provding data for the Chinese teaching platform.3.2 Description of the grammar points in Knowledge-baseHu Yushu and Fan Xiao (1985) proposed the three plane theory on the grammar researching, which are the syntactic plane, semantic plane and pragmatic plane. Lu Fubo (2000) suggested that the three plane theory should be used in TCSL. In this paper we proposes the structure of describing the grammar poins on the three plane theory. (see Figure 2)3 3.1Outline of CGPK Scale and structureCGPK consists of a Static Description Knowledge- base of Grammar Points and a Dynamic Annotated Corpus of Grammar Points. (Figure 1)Figure 1 Main structure of GPK The Static Description Knowledge-base The Static Description Knowledge-base contains 121 grammar points, which are the important and common grammar points in TCSL, such as comparative sentences, existential sentences. The 121 grammar points are divided into four types, the fixed structures, such as “you...you...”(又...... 又......), preposition words & preposition phrases, such as “zai...shang”(在......上), special sentence patterns, such as comparative sentences(比较句) 
  Figure 2 Structure of describing the grammar pointsIn the basic information part, we set 3 attributes fields to describe the grammar points. For example, the item number of “Tai...Le” is “1TL”, the item name is “太......了”, the item type is fixed structure.In the teaching information part, we set 11 attributes fields to describe the grammar points. Semantic informationIn the semantic plane, we set 2 attributes. Foxexample, the semantic information of “you...you...”(又......又......) is in the table 1.Table 2: the basic form of the existential sentenceFrom the table 2, we can see that there are three forms of the existential sentences and there are 89 sentences with the first form, 87 sentences with the second form and 53 sentences with the third form.sentences with the first meaning, 95 sentences with the second meaning. Syntactic informationWe describe the syntactic plane from 4 aspects.There are the basic form, the form with subject, the negative form and the collocation form, which are useful and necessary in TCSL. In this paper, we take the basic information and the form with subjects as the examples to explain the syntactic plane in CGPK. Table 2 is the basic form of the existential sentence. Item nameThe num-ber of the formBasic formFrequencyexistential sentence (存现 句)31Place noun+you(有) +Noun892Place noun+Verb+z he(着)/le(了)/ man(满)+Nou n873Place noun+shi(是) +Noun53 Item nameThe number of the senseThe senseFreque- ncyyou...yo u... (又...... 又......)21It means that something has two characters at the same time.3792It means that two actions happened at the same time.95 Item nameForms with subjectFreque -ncyyue...yu e... (越... ... 越...... )1subject+yue...yue...1062subject1+yue...subject2+y ue...873yue...subject+yue...53Table 1: Senmantic information of “you...you...”From table 1, we can see that there are 2 senses of “you...you...”, there are 474 sentences with “you...you...” in 141464 sentences and 379Table 3: the form with subject information of “yue...yue...”From the table 3, we can see that the grammar point of “yue...yue...” could have one subject or two subjects. When it has two subjects, form 2
 should be used. When it has one subject, form 1 and form 3 could be used.Pragmatic informationIn the pragmatic plane, we set 4 attribute fieldsto describe grammar points. The attribute field of “tone” is to describe the language point is used in spoken language or the written language. The “mood” is to describe the grammar points is to express affirmation, negative mode or a mild mood. The “style” is to describe the language point isused in the declarative sentence, question sentence, imperative sentence or exclamatory sentence. The pragmatic meaning is for the complex sentence , which is to describe the grammar points is used in progressive complex sentences, transitional complex sentences or others.Other informationThe attribute field of “level” is to describe thegrammar points’ level in the HSK exam. The “Error” is to give some error examples which from HSK dynamic Composition Corpus to help the teacher to know the errors the learners may make. The similar items is to help the teacher to get the information that what grammar points are easy to mix up for the learners.3.3 Annotation of the grammar points in CorpusIn the corpus, we annotate the sense, basic form, form with subject, negative form and collocative information. The annoted result could be used in the Chinese teaching platform and the statistical result is used by the Static Description Knowledge- base of the frequency infromation.Because the Microsoft EXCEL is good at storing, analyzing data and it is easy to manipulate, we take it as the annotation tool. The process of the annotation is shown in figure 3.Figure 3 The process of annotationThe first step is to make the annotation structure for each grammar points. To extract data with the target grammar point from 141464 sentences is the second step. The third step is to design the annotation sheet in the EXCEL. The forth step is to annotate the grammar points informaiton in the annotation sheet. (See Figure 4) Figure 4 Annotation sheet of “Gei”Figure 4 is the annotation sheet of “Gei”, we can see that the sentences with grammar point of “Gei” has been extracted from 141464 sentences and save them in one sheet. The grammar features of “Gei” in each sentence were annotated from aspects of sense, basic form, collocation form.4 Application in TCSLThe CGPK has been used in a Chinese teaching platform, which could help the teacher to obtain the valuable teaching information of the grammar points and useful sentences with grammar pionts directly.  Figure 5 The explanation of “tai...le” in the Chinese teaching platform
 Figure 5 is the explanation of “tai...le”, the user can get all the sentencse with “tai...le” in the corpus. The user also can get the semantics, syntactics and pragramtics information from the platfrom. Besides, users can choose sentences by clicking the semantics or the forms they want. For example, if users want to get the sentences with the form of “Tai+adj.+le”, they just need to click “太+ 形+了”, the results will be show in the right part of the interface.5 Conclusion and future workThis paper introduces the construction of CGPK and its application in a Chinese teaching platform. There are valuable teaching information of 121 grammar points and 99592 annotated sentences in the CGPK. In the future, we will add more grammar points in CGPK and research on how to use and show the frequency informaiton in the platform.ReferencesChristiane Fellbaum, ed.(1998),WordNet: an electronic lexical database, The MIT Press.Hu Yushu & Fan Xiao (1993) The Discussion on the three planes of grammar research, Language Teaching and Linguistic Studies, (02), 4-21.Lu Fubo (2000) The Teaching and Studying on the structure of “Tai”: the Researcing on the Combination of Teaching Chinese as a Sencond language and the Three Plane Theory, Chinese Teaching in the World, (02), 74-81.Peng Weiming, Song Jihua, et al. (2014) The Construction of Grammar Resources Knowledge- base for TCSL, Chinese Distance Education, (08):90- 94.Yu Shiwen, Zhu Xuefeng, et al. (1996) The Specification of the Modern Chinese Grammatical Information Dictionary, Journal of Chinese Information Processing, (03):1-22.Yu Shiwen, Zhu Xuefeng (2014) Comprehensive Language knowledge-base and Its Applications in Language Teaching, Journal of Beihua University(Social Sciences), (03):4-9.