Dynamic Semantics for Intensification and Epistemic Necessity: The Case of Yídìng and Shìbìin Mandarin ChineseAbstractFunctioning as adverbials, yídìng and shìbì in Mandarin Chinese can either express intensi- fication or (strong) epistemic necessity. In ad- dition, context influences their semantics. Hence, dynamic semantics are proposed for them. An information state  is a pair <A, s>, where s is a proposition and A is an affirma- tive ordering. Yídìng() performs update on an information state: A is updated with  and s is specified to be a subset of or equal of , as long as  is true in one of the absolutely af- firmative worlds. Otherwise, uttering yídìng() leads to an absurd state. This is how a strong epistemic necessity reading is derived. To yield an intensification reading, yídìng() per- forms a test on the information state. Yídìng() gives back the original information state as long as  is true in all of the absolutely af- firmative worlds. Otherwise, an absurd state is produced. As for shìbì, its semantics is identi- cal to that of yídìng, except for that the s in an information state  for shìbìis underspecified and needs resolving before a proposition gets an appropriate interpretation. The information needed to resolve the underspecified s for shìbìmust be inferred from the context.1 IntroductionIn Mandarin Chinese (henceforth, Chinese), inten- sification and modal necessity can be expressed by the same lexical item. Adverbial yídìng is one ofsuch lexical items.1 Please refer to the following examples.(1) A: Zhāngsān xǐhuān Xiǎoměi ma? Zhangsan like Xiaomei Q2 ‘Does Zhangsan like Xiaomei?’B: Zhāngsān yídìng xǐhuān Xiǎoměi Zhangsan YÍDÌNG like XiaomeiTā hěn zhùyì Xiǎoměi-de He very pay.attention.to Xiaomei-ASSO yìjǔyídòng. Zhè shì hěn hélìdemove this be very reasonable tuīcè.conjecture‘It must be the case that Zhangsan likesXiaomei. He pays much attention to every move of Xiaomei. This is a rea- sonable conjecture.’B’: Zhāngsān yídìng xǐhuān Xiǎoměi. Zhangsan YÍDÌNG like XiaomeiZhè shì zhòngsuǒzhōzhīde shìshí.This be widely-known fact ‘Zhangsan definitely likes Xiaomei. Thisis a widely-known fact.’1 Please note that yídìng can function either as a nominal mod- ifier or a propositional modifier. The former is referred to as adjectival yídìng and the latter adverbial yídìng. This paper discusses adverbial yídìng only because the semantics of ad- jectival yídìng is simple and not as rich as adverbial yídìng.2 The abbreviations used in this paper include: ASSO for an associative marker, DEON for a deontic modal expression, DYN for a dynamic modal expression, EPI for an epistemic modal expression, Prc for a sentence-final particle, Prg for a progres- sive marker, Q for an interrogative particle.Wu, Jiun-ShiungChung Cheng University, 168, University Road, Minshiung, Chiayi County,Taiwan, 621Lngwujs@ccu.edu.tw 
(1) contains two conversations: one between A and B, and the other between A and B’. In the two conversations, A asks whether Zhangsan likes Xiaomei. Although the same sentence Zhāngsān yídìng xǐhuān Xiǎoměi ‘Zhangsan YÍDÌNG like Xiaomei’ is uttered as a response to A’s question, yídìng has different semantic functions. In the ut- terance of B, yídìng expresses epistemic necessity because B says that the proposition Zhāngsān yídìng xǐhuān Xiǎoměi ‘Zhangsan YÍDÌNG like Xiaomei’ is a reasonable conjecture. Yídìng of this usage is translated as it must be the case that...Moreover, when expressing epistemic necessity, yídìng expresses ‘strong’ epistemic necessity. The following examples demonstrate the difference between epistemic necessity and ‘strong’ epistemic necessity.(2) a. Ruóguǒ zài kǎo bù jígé, nǐthat the proposition (=Zhāngsān yídìng xǐhuān Xiǎoměi ‘Zhangsan YÍDÌNG like Xiaomei’) is a widely-known fact. This usage of yídìng is trans- lated as definitely in English and is referred to as an intensification reading.Shìbìhas a semantic function similar to yídìng and they are interchangeable in some examples, but not in others. See below.(3) a. Yīnwèi zhùzi tài xì, yòng zhè zhǒng Because pillar too thin, use this kind wūdǐng yídìng/shìbì yǒukěnéngroof YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ have possibilitytāxiàlái.collapse‘Because the pillars are too thin, if thistype of roof is used, it is definitely possi-ble that the roof will collapse.’b. Rúgǒu nǐ chuān hòu yīfú, nǐde if you wear thick clothes yourshāng yídìng/shìbì jiào qīng. wound YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ relatively minor‘If you wear thick clothes, it must be the case that your wound is relative minor.’(4) a. Zhè-ge shíhòu, Xiǎomíng yídìng/*shìbì This-CL time Xiaoming YÍDÌNG/*SHÌBÌzài jiā. at home‘At this moment, it must be the case that Xiaoming is at home.’b.Hūn hòu,rúgǔozhùYìnní, wǒ married after if live Indonesia I*yídìng/shìbì cídiào gōngzuò. *YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ resign job‘After getting married, if we live in Indo- nesia, I definitely have to quit my job.’In (3a, b), yídìng and shìbìare interchangeable and these two sentences are pretty much synony- mous. However, in (4a, b), they are not inter- changeable. In (4a), only yídìng is allowed, whereas in (4b) only shìbìis permissible.In this paper, I would like to address the follow- ing questions. First, is it possible to provide a uni- fied semantics for yídìng and shìbì? Second, how can the unified semantics account for the semantic similarity and difference between yídìng and shìbì as demonstrated in (3) and (4)? Finally, how can the unified semantics take care of contextual influ- ence on the semantics of yídìng and shìbìillustrat- ed by the utterances of B and of B’ in (1)?If again take.exam not pass māma yídìng hěn shēngqì.youMom YÍDÌNG very angry‘If you fail the exam again, it must be thecase that you mom will be very angry.’ b. Ruóguǒ zài kǎo bù jígé, nǐIf again take.exam not passmāma huì hěn shēngqì.Mom will very angry‘If you fail the exam again, you mom willbe very angry.’The difference between (2a) and (2b) lies in that (2a) contains yídìng, while (2b) uses huì. Huì has several meanings and one of them is inference, e.g. Chang (2000), Liu (1997), etc. In (2b), huìis used express an inference about a future situation based the antecedent led by rúguǒ ‘if’. Although yídìng in (2a) has a similar function, (2a) and (2b) have a subtle semantic difference: (2a) shows a stronger certainty of the speaker’s regarding the truth of the proposition your Mom will be angry, compared to (2b). Hence, when used to indicate an inference, yídìng is said to express ‘strong’ epis- temic necessity.On the other hand, yídìng in the utterance of B’ has a different semantic function. In this utterance, yídìng is used to intensify the speaker’s affirma- tiveness toward the proposition your Mom will be angry, instead of expressing the proposition as an inference. The intensification function of yídìng in this example is made explicit because of B’ claimsyou
This paper is organized as follows. In Section Two, I critically review literature on yídìng and shìbì. In Section Three, I present more data and provide dynamic semantics for yídìng and shìbì. Section Four concludes this paper.2 Review of Previous StudiesThe literature on yídìng and/or shìbìinclude Chen (2011), Ding (2008a, b), C. Li (2005), S. Li (2009), Wang (2007), Xu (1995), Zhou (2014), etc. Xu (1995) is on the English translations of yídìng and two other adverbs and is not reviewed here. I criti- cally review the other seven studies.I start with the literature on yídìng and conduct the review in chronological order. Li (2005) distin- guishes two variants of yídìng, labeled as yídìng1 and yídìng2. He suggests that the former expresses strong volition, either the subject’s or the speaker’s strong volition (for another person) to do some- thing, while the latter denotes stipulation or judg- ment. He further claims that yídìng1 often goes with yào, which expresses a deontic reading here, or with děi, which also has a deontic reading, and that yídìng2 often goes with shi ‘be’ or hui, which denotes epistemic necessity.A major problem with Li (2005) is that he does not take the intensification reading into con- sideration, such as the utterance of B’ in (1). An- other problem is that the semantic contribution of yídìng is blurred when it goes with another modal expression. For example, he suggests that yídìng děi ‘YÍDÌNG DEON’ expresses a deontic reading. Then, a reasonable question to ask is what seman- tic contribution yídìng has here. The same problem occurs to yídìng huì‘YÍDÌNG EPI’.Ding (2008a, b) also discusses the semantics of yídìng. These two studies distinguish yídìng1 from yídìng2 as well. Similar to Li (2005), Ding (2008a, b) claims that yídìng1 expresses strong vo- lition and yídìng2 denotes emphasis on the truth of an inference/judgment. Ding’s (2008a, b) conclu- sion is similar to Li (2005) and hence suffers from the same problems.Chen (2011) is mostly on the grammaticali- zation of yídìng. As for the semantics of yídìng, he claims that yídìng expresses strong volition or stip- ulation/inference. Since Chen’s (2011) conclusion is identical to Li (2005) and Ding (2008a, b), and therefore is vulnerable to the same problems.Two major problems shared by Chen (2011), Ding (2008a, b) and Li (2005) are the following. First, they do not discuss whether it is possible to provide a unified semantics for yídìng, and second, they do not discuss how the contextual influence on the semantics of yídìng as demonstrated in the two conversations in (1) should be dealt with.S. Li (2009), Wang (2007) and Zhou (2014) focus on shìbì. These three studies are also re- viewed in chronological order. Wang (2007) is on the lexicalization of shìbì. This paper suggests that shìbìdescribes an inference made based on a cur- rent situation. S. Li (2009) is about the historical development of shìbì. This study states that shìbì expresses an inference that some situation is cer- tain to take place in the future, based on the current status of some other situation. Zhou (2014) pro- vides a relatively detailed discussion on the seman- tic features of shìbì, but basically says the same thing as S. Li (2009) and Wang (2007). While ep- istemic necessity is one of the readings expressed by shìbì, these studies cannot explain why shìbìis not good in (4a), which also has an epistemic ne- cessity reading, and neither do they take the inten- sification reading, such as (3a), into consideration.Since the above reviewed papers do not provide a comprehensive picture for the semantics of yídìng and shìbì, further study is called for so that the unanswered questions can be addressed.3 3.1Semantics of Yídìng and Shìbì The DataYídìng can either present a proposition without a modal expression or one with a modal expression. The utterances of B and of B’ in (1), and the sen- tence (2a) are typical examples where yídìng pre- sents a proposition not containing a modal expression. (3a) is an example where yídìng pre- sents a modal containing a modal expression. Ei- ther case, yídìng is ambiguous between a strong epistemic reading and an intensification reading. Let’s look at a few more examples.(5) a. Lǐsì yídìng zài jiā. Lisi YÍDÌNG at home‘It must be the case that Lisi is at home.’ Or, ‘Lisi is definite at home.’
b. Wángwǔ yídìng yǐjīng xiěwán Wangwu YÍDÌNG already write.finish gōngkè le.homework Prc‘It must be the case that Wangwu has al- ready finished his homework.’ Or, ‘Wangwau definitely has finished his homework.’c. Zài xià jǐ tiān dà yǔ, Againrainseveralday heavy rainzhèlǐ yídìng fānshēng tǔshīliú.here YÍDÌNG happen mud.slide‘If it rains heavily a few more days, itmust be the case that mud slide will hap- pen here.’ Or,‘If it rains heavily a few more days, mud slide definitely will happen here.’(6) a. Zhàoliù yídìng huì qí jiǎotàchē. Zhaoliu YÍDÌNG DYN ride bike‘It must be the case that Zhaoliu can ride a bike.’ Or,‘Zhaoliu definitely can ride a bike.’b.Sūnqīyídìngděi dǎsǎofángjiānle. Sunqi YÍDÌNG DEON clean room Prc ‘It must be the case that Sunqi has to clean his room.’ Or,‘Sunqi definitely has to clean his room.’Some native speakers I consult point out to me that, standing alone, (6b) preferably has an intensi- fication reading, rather than a strong epistemic ne- cessity reading. However, if we provide a context for the sentence, the strong epistemic necessity reading can be brought out. For example,(7) Sūnqī yídìng děi dǎsǎo fángjiān le. Sunqi YÍDÌNG DEON clean room Prc Zhè shì wǒ-de tuīcè. Tā-de fùmǔ this be my conjecture his parents yǐjīng shòubǔliǎo le.already tolerate.not Prc‘It must be the case that Sunqi has to cleanhis room. This is my guess. His parents cannot tolerate it anymore.’So, can a unified semantics be proposed for yídìng? I believe so. The examples presented in this section and previous sections tell us that the semantics of yídìng contains two parts. The first part provides an epistemic necessity reading, justlike must in English. The other part provides an intensification reading.If we put aside the contextual influence on the semantics of yídìng for the moment, the semantics of yídìng can be modeled using Kratzer’s (2012[1981], 1991) semantics of modal expres- sions. See (8).(8) Modal semantics for yídìngModal base: EpistemicModal force: NecessityOrdering sources: (a) doxastic or stereo- typical, (b) affirmativeIn (8), the modal base, modal force and one of the ordering sources in (a) together are actually the typical semantics for an epistemic necessary modal expression. The new idea here is the second ordering source, the affirmative ordering source. von Fintel and Iatridou (2008) propose that weak necessity modals such as should in English need two ordering sources for their semantics. The idea of two ordering sources is adopted here.What is an affirmative ordering source? An af- firmative ordering source orders possible worlds in terms of the speaker’s affirmativeness toward a proposition. A represents an affirmative ordering source. Then, the ordering of two possible worlds based on an affirmative ordering source is defined as below.(9) v, w are possible worlds. p is a proposition. w A v iff {p: p is affirmed in v}  {p: p isaffirmed in w}(cf. Kratzer 2012[1981]: 39)How about shìbì? I show that yídìng and shìbì are interchangeable in some cases, but not in others. For the purpose of discussion, I repeat the relevant examples in (10).(10) a. Zhè-ge shíhòu, Xiǎomíng yídìng/ This-CL time Xiaoming YÍDÌNG/ *shìbì zài jiā.*SHÌBÌ at home‘At this moment, it must be the case that Xiaoming is at home.’
b.Hūn hòu,rúgǔozhùYìnní, wǒ married after if live Indonesia I*yídìng/shìbì cídiào gōngzuò. *YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ resign job‘After getting married, if we live in In- donesia, I definitely have to quit my job.’(11) a. Rúguǒ wǒ bù néng chōngfènIf I not can sufficient gōngyìng shìchāng dehuà, wǒ-de provide market Prc my gùkè shìbì/yídìng huì cóng customer SHÌBÌ/YÍDÌNG will from bié chù gòu huò.other place purchase goods‘If I cannot provide sufficiently in themarket, my customers definitely pur- chase goods from somewhere else.’b. Yào jiàngdī chéngběn, want decrease cost yídìng/shìbì yào zēng YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ DEON increase chǎnproduction‘If it wants to decrease cost, CPC defi- nitely has to increase production.’In (10a), yídìng is good, but shìbì is not. 331 examples of shìbì are retrieved from the online version of the Sinica Corpus. Examining these ex- amples carefully, I find that, whenever shìbì is used, additional information must be present so that the sentence with shìbì can be inferred. For example, in (10b), moving to Indonesia after get- ting married leads to the event that the speaker has to quit his/her current job. The same reasoning ap- plies to (11a, b).Therefore, the first difference between yídìng and shìbìis that the former does not need the con- text to explicitly provide information based on which the proposition presented by yídìng can be inferred, whereas the latter does. In (10a), shìbìis not good because of lack of such information.What happens if another modal expression, oth- er than yídìng and shìbì, occurs in the sentences, such as (11a, b)? In these cases, yídìng and shìbì are interchangeable, and they are ambiguous as discussed above.So, what is the semantics of shìbìand how is it related to that of yídìng? (10) sheds some light on this question. Again, putting contextual influenceaside, I propose that the modal base of shìbì and the ordering source related to the modal base are both underspecified, while the affirmative ordering sourceisalwaysthereforshìbì.Shìbìcannotbe used in (10a) because information required to infer the proposition presented by shìbì does not exist. The lack of such information makes it impossible to resolve the underspecified modal base (and the underspecifiedorderingsource)ofshìbì.On the other hand, in (10b), if one moves out of town, then it is most likely required for him/her to quit his/her current job in town. That is, the rela- tion between the two clauses in (10b) indicates a deontic reading and the underspecified modal base ofshìbìisresolvedtocircumstantialandtheorder- ing source is related to a physical law: if one is not at a place, he cannot hold a job at that place.3In sum, putting contextual influence aside, I propose the following. Yídìng has an epistemic modal base and two ordering sources. One is dox- astic or stereotypical and the other is affirmative. An affirmative ordering source orders possible worlds in terms of the degree of speaker’s affirma- tiveness concerning a proposition. Shìbì has an underspecified modal base and two ordering sources. One of the ordering sources is underspeci- fied as well because it needs to be compatible with the modal base. The other is an affirmative one.3.2 Dynamic Semantics for Yídìng and ShìbìAlthough, in Section 3.1, semantics are proposed, along the lines of Kratzer (2012[1981], 1991), for yídìng and shìbì, Kratzer’s semantics of modality cannot take care of contextual influence, which is demonstrated in the two conversations in (1). There is no mechanism in Kratzer’s semantics of modality (and in truth-conditional semantics as well) to deal with contextual effects.Instead, I would like to propose dynamic se- mantics (Groenendijk and Stokhof 1991, Chierchia 1995, etc.)4 for yídìng and shìbìso that contextual effects can be taken care of. Yalcin (2007) discuss- es why sentences such as suppose that it is raining but it might not be is infelicitous. In order to take care of embedded epistemic modals, a clause em- bedded under suppose must be interpreted accord-3 Let’s not consider, for the moment, work at home through internet or other special situations.4 For an excellent introduction to dynamic (modal) logic, please refer to Sectioin 3.2, Portner (2008).zhōngyóu CPC 
ing to what the subject supposes. Hence, one ver- sion of Yalcin’s (2007) proposal is as follows:(12) a. Sw, xis defined as {w’: w’ is compatible with what x supposes in w}b. ||x suppose ||c, s, w = {w: Swx  ||||c,Sw, x, w’}c. ||Suppose that it is raining but it might not be|| = w’Sw,x:||||c, Sw, x, w’ is truew’Sw, x: ||||c, Sw, x, w’ is true(12c) is a contradiction because it is not plausi- ble that Sw, x contains a possible world where  and  are both true at the same time. Yalcin’s (2007) idea applies to yídìng and shìbìas well because of the infelicity of the following example:(13) tiān zhème hēi, xiànzài yídìng/shìbì sky so dark now YÍDÌNG/SHÌBÌ zài xiàyù. #dànshì, yě yǒu kěnéngIn addition, in order to account for the high degree of affirmativness in the semantics of yídìng and shìbì, we define absolutely affirmative words as (14a). We also need to update the affirmative ordering with a proposition, so that the proposition is true in the worlds where more propositions are affirmed to be true, as defined in (14b):(14) a. Absolutely affirmative worlds (cf. n<, s> in Veltman 1996: 14)AffA = {wW: vW, w A v}, whereW is the set of all possible worlds. b. Updating an affirmative orderingA={<w,v>:wA vifv,then w}(14a) says the following: AffA is a set of possi- ble worlds each of whose members has more prop- ositions affirmed to be true than one of the other possible worlds in W. AffA is referred to as the ab- solutely affirmative worlds because all the worlds in this set contain only propositions affirmed to be true.(14b) is the definition of updating A with : A is a pair <w, v>, where, if  is true in v, then  is also true in w, that is, the affirmative ordering takes  into consideration. In this way, we can re- late a proposition  to an affirmative ordering A.(15) a. strong epistemic necessity reading  ||yídìng()||M= <A, s> if AffA  {w:||||w, M = 1}  and s represents the speaker’sknowledge in w; or= absurd state, otherwise b. intensification reading ||yídìng()||M=  if AffA  {w: ||||w,M=1}=AffA and s the speaker’s knowledge in w; or = absurd state, otherwise.(15a) accounts for the strong epistemic necessi- ty reading yídìng can denote. The ordering source A is updated with the proposition . This update relates  to the order A so that the affirmative or- dering takes  into consideration. Just like Yalcin (2007), s says that  is interpreted with respect to s, the speaker’s knowledge. There is a condition for the new information state <A, s> to hold:Prg rain #butméiyǒunot‘It is so dark. Now, it must be the case that it is raining, #but it may not be.’But, Yalcin’s (2007) idea alone is not adequate for yídìng and shìbìbecause they denote a ‘strong’ epistemic necessity reading, rather than simple ep- istemic necessity. Is it possible to incorporate the affirmative ordering source as defined in Section 3.1 into an information state, i.e. what Yalcin (2007) refers to as s? Veltman’s (1996) proposal can help us here.In order to account for the semantics of nor- mally and presumably, Veltman (1996) propose that an information state is a pair  = <, s>. s is a proposition and Yalcin’s (2007) s or Sw, x is one type of Veltman’s (1996) s.  is an expectation pat- tern, i.e. an ordering of possible worlds, where w  v iff every expectation which is met by v is also met by w (Veltman 1996: 13).Combining Veltman (1996) and Yalcin (2007), I propose that for yídìng and shìbì the in- formation state  is also a pair and that  = <A, s>. s is a proposition, as in Veltman (1996) and Yalcin (2007). A is an affirmative ordering, where w  A v if and only if every proposition which is affirmed to be true in v is also affirmed to be true in w.also have possibility
 must be true in one of the absolutely affirmative worlds. This condition is stated as AffA  {w: ||||w, M = 1} . If the condition does not hold, then A fails and uttering the ||yídìng()||M pro- duces an absurd state.As for the intensification reading, since this is not an inference or judgment, s does not equal to the speaker’s knowledge in w. Instead of updating the information state, an intensification reading simply performs a test, as stated in (15b). As long as  is true in all of the absolutely affirmative worlds, then ||yídìng()||M gives back the original information state. If the condition does not hold, then an absurd state is yielded.How about shìbì? As pointed out in Section 3.1, the difference between yídìng and shìbìlies in that the modal base of shìbì is underspecified. If we examine the information state  carefully, we can find that s in  functions in a way similar to a modal base. Hence, I propose that the s in the in- formation state for shíbíis underspecified and must be resolved before a sentence containing shìbìcan get an appropriate interpretation. I formalize the idea as follows:(16) a. <A, s=?> ||shìbì()||Mb. Suppose that ,  forms a (mini) dis-course. ,  are propositionsIf <A, s=?>, ||shìbì()||M and R(, ), then s = R.In (16a), s = ? stands for an underspecified s. In (16b), R(, ) means that  and  have a certain relation R. This R resolves the underspecified s. For example, in (10b), the two clauses are related because of a physical law, which says that one needs to live in a reasonable distance from where his job is. For this example, this physical law re- solves s and hence (10b) can get an appropriate interpretation. Except for (16a, b), the semantics of shìbìis identical to that of yídìng, as in (15).Now, with the dynamic semantics (15) and (16), we can successfully explain the two conversations in (1). For the conversation between A and B, since B says that this is a reasonable conjecture, s must represent the speaker’s knowledge. Therefore, (15b) is ruled out. The information state is updated and we a strong epistemic necessity reading.On the other hand, for the conversation between A and B’, since B’ says that this is a widely-knownfact, s cannot be equal to the speaker’s knowledge. Hence, (15b) kicks in and we get an intensification reading.In this section, I propose dynamic semantics for yídìng and shìbì. Both of these adverbials have an information state <A, s>, where s is a proposition and A is an affirmative ordering. To derive a strong epistemic necessity reading, yídìng and shìbìupdate A with a proposition they present and specify that the proposition is a subset of or equal to s. This update holds if  is true in one of the ab- solutely affirmative worlds. To produce an intensi- fication reading, a check is performed on an information state: if  is true in all of the absolute- ly affirmative worlds, the original information state is returned. If the condition is not satisfied, neither strong epistemic necessity reading nor intensifica- tion reading can be produced. This is the unified semantics for yídìng and shìbì.Their difference is that the s in an information state <A, s> for shìbìis underspecified, and needs to be contextually resolved so that a proposition presented by shìbìcan get a proper reading.4 ConclusionIn this paper, I propose dynamic semantics for yídìng and shìbì because truth-conditional seman- tics cannot deal with contextual effects in the se- mantics of yídìng and shìbì. Following Veltman (1996), I propose an information state  is a pair <A, s>, where s is a proposition and A is an af- firmative ordering. Yídìng() performs update on an information state: A is update with  and s is specified to be a subset of or equal of , as long as  is true in one of the absolutely affirmative worlds. Otherwise, uttering yídìng() leads to an absurd state. This is how a strong epistemic necessity reading is derived.On the other hand, to yield an intensification reading, yídìng() performs a test on an infor- mation state. Yídìng() gives back the original in- formation state as long as  is true in all of the absolutely affirmative worlds. Otherwise, an ab- surd state is produced.As for shìbì, its semantics is identical to that of yídìng, except for the following: the s in an infor- mation state  for shìbìis underspecified and needs to be resolved before a proposition presented by shìbì can get an appropriate interpretation. The
information needed to resolve the underspecified s for shìbìmust be inferred from the context.AcknowledgementsI hereby acknowledge the financial support from Ministry of Science and Technology, Taiwan, un- der the grant number MOST 103-2410-H-194-037. I also thank my part-time research assistant Hsuan- Hsiang Wang for collecting data and for a prelimi- nary analysis.ReferencesChang, Yung-Li. 2000. Hànyǔ lùnduàn huì de yǔyì [On the Semantics of Predictive-Assertive hui in Manda- rin]. Paper presented at the 9th International Confer- ence on Chinese Linguistics. Singapore.Chen, Yong. 2011. Yídìng de xūhuà jí liǎng zhǒng yǔyì de fēnhuà [Grammaticalization of Yídìng and Two Types of Modality Diversification]. Journal of Wu- han University of Science & Technology (Social Sci- ence Edition), 13, 5, pp. 605-609.Chierchia, Gennro. 1995. Dynamics of Meaning: Anaphora, Presupposition and the Theory of Gram- mar. Chicago: University of Chicago.Ding, Ping. 2008a. Yě shuō fùcí yídìng [Adverb Yídìng Revisited]. Journal of Northwest University for Nationalities (Philosophy and Social Sciences), Year 2008, Issue 5, pp. 108-112.Ding, Ping. 2008b. Yídìng yǔ kěndìng zuò zhuàngyǔ shí de bǐjào [Comparison of Adverb Yídìng and Adverb Kěndìng]. Journal of Southwest University for Na- tionalities (Humanities and Social Sciences), Year 2008, Issue 8, pp. 236-240.von Fintel, Kai and Sabine Iatridou. 2008. How to Say Ought in Foreign: The Composition of Weak Neces- sity Modals. In Time and Modality. Eds. J. Guéron and J. Lecarme. Pp. 115-141. Berlin: Springer.Groenendijk, Jeroen and Martin Stokhof. 1991. Dynam- ic Predicate Logic. Linguistics and Philosophy, 14, pp. 39-100.Kratzer, Angelika. 1991. Modality. In Sematics: An International Handbook of Contemporary Research. Eds. von Stechow, A., Wunderlich, D. Pp. 639-650. Berlin: de Gruyter.Kratzer, Angelika. 2012[1981]. The Notional Category of modality. In Modals and Conditionals. Ed. Ange- lika Kratzer. Pp. 21-69. Oxford: Oxford University.Li, Chengjun. 2005. Fùcí yídìng shuōluè [On Adverb Yídìng]. Lǐlù yùkān [Theory Monthly], Year 2005, Is- sue 5, pp. 126-127.Li, Suying. 2009. Yǔqì fùcí shìbì de xíngchéng [On the Formation of Modal Adverb Shìbì]. Yǔwén xuékān [Journal of Language and Literature], Year 2009, Issue 10, pp. 42-44.Liu, Hsiao-mei. 1997. Guó Mǐn Kèyǔ de dòngtài wěnfǎ tǐxì jí dòngtàicí de shàngjiā dòngmào yǔyì [Mood System and Interaction between Mood and Aspect in Mandarin, Taiwanese and Hakka]. Taipei: Crane.Portner, Paul. 2008. Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Veltman, Frank. 1996. Defaults in Update Semantics. Journal of Philosophical Logic, 25, pp. 221-261.Wang, Meihua. 2007. Shìbìde cíhuìhuà [Lexicalization of Shìbì]. Journal of Hunan First Normal College, 7, 1, pp. 101-103.Xu, Xiaomei. 1995. Qiǎn tán hànyǔ wùbì, yídìng, quèxìn zài yīngyǔ zhōng de biǎodáfǎ [On the English Translations of Wùbì, yídìng and Quèxìn]. Huáiyīn gōngyè zhuānkē xuéxiào xuébào [Journal of Huaiyin Junior College of Industry], 4, 1, pp. 56-57.Yalcin, Seth. 2007. Epistemic Modals. Mind, 116, pp. 983-1026.Zhou, Minli. 2014. Xīnwén bàodǎo yǔtǐ zhōng de fùcí shìbì qiǎnxī – jiān tán yǔ bìrán de bǐjiào [On Adverb Shìbì in News Report and Its Comparison with Bìrán]. Journal of Xinyu University, 19, 1, pp. 42-45.