 A Contrastive Study on Semantic Prosodies of Minimal Degree Adverbs in Chinese and EnglishAbstractFrom the perspective of cross-language, this paper, by using Chinese and English corpus, examines the semantic prosody similarities and differences between shaowei (稍微 ‘a little’) and “a little”, the minimal degree adverbs in these two languages. The research findings indicate that the semantic prosody of shaowei is neutral while "a little" is negative.Key words: semantic prosody, minimal degree adverb, “shaowei”(稍微 ‘a little’), a little1. IntroductionSemantic prosody describes the way in which nodes can be perceived with positive or negative associations through frequent occurrences with particular collocations. From the perspective of function, semantic prosody is usually divided into three categories, namely, positive prosody, neutral prosody and negative prosody [1].Negative prosody associates with words referring to the unpleasant things or qualities and positive prosody connects words with positive or pleasant connotations while neutral prosody tends to co-occur with words have no obvious tendency. Naturally, neutral prosody is also called mixed prosody by Wei Nai-xing and with which the collocated words are neither positive nor negative, i.e. it shows a mixed semantic features because some of the collocation words are positive while others are negative[2].Semantic prosody, with the property of probability, can not eliminate exception, but the probability is relatively low [3]. For example, by searching the corpus, it was found that the collocation possibility of “rather” with words of negative connotations is much higher than the other two categories. Therefore, “rather” was regarded as a word with negative semantic prosody. However, this does not exclude the possibility that it occasionally co-occurred with positive or neutral words, for instance, with “fine”.The previous theoretical studies and empirical researches on semantic prosody are mostly from monolingual perspective, especially in English. And several other studies, focused on bilingual semantic prosody comparison, mainly concern the contrast between English and other European languages and few attempts have been made to compare the semantic prosody between Chinese and English, because they belong to different language family. This paper, from the perspective of cross-language, will analyze the prosody feature of minimal degree adverbs in Chinese and English, revealing the speaker’s implicit attitude and intention in communication.2. The Magnitude Characteristic of the Minimal Degree Adverbs--shaowei and “a little”As a subcategory of adverb in both Chinese and English, degree adverbs can be further divided according to their semantic and syntactic features. The meaning degree adverbs play a key role and they can be re-categorized by order of magnitude.This study, based on typological framework, will divide adverbs in three categories, namely, minimal degree adverbs, high degree adverbs and excessive degree adverbs [4]. After that, the most typical minimal degree adverbs in Chinese, shaowei, and its English equivalent, "a little", were selected as examples to find the similarity and difference of their semantic prosody. This paper also tries to find 
 out the corresponding rules of Chinese-English minimal degree adverbs and give a reasonable explanation by analyzing data derived from corpus-based software."Shaowei" is a common degree adverb representing minimal degree in modern Chinese. According to Modern Chinese Dictionary (2010), "shaowei" is an adverb and denotes "a small number or minimal degree." Similarly, in Modern Chinese Dictionary of Function Words (2005), "shaowei" indicates minimal degree and it tends to collocate with positive adjectives and exclude negative words. However, from the perspective of typology, Liu holds that minimal degree adverbs, like shaowei or "shao" (稍 ‘a little), often modify negative adjectives for the expression of euphemism [4]. But there is no conclusion that “shaowei” co-occurs with negative words or positive ones.According to Modern Chinese-English Dictionary (1993), "shaowei" is an adverb and its English equivalents are "a little", "a bit", "a bit of" and "a trifle". Longman English Grammar (2011) also indicates that "a little" is a degree adverb and collocates with adjectives, adverbs, comparatives and verbs. Obviously, "a little", as a minimal degree adverb in English, equates with "shaowei" to a certain extent.3. The Design of the ResearchThis research adopts keyword searching method KWIC (keywords in context) to search words co-occurred with keywords. The retrieval software is Antconc3.2.1. The study is based on the exploration of CCL (developed by the Center for Chinese Linguistics of PKU), a Chinese on line corpus with over 477 million Chinese characters. The Brown Corpus (hereinafter referred to as BROWN), a classical corpus with 1 million words, is also used in the course of the investigation. In this study, the node words are shaowei and "a little" respectively, and the span is - 4~+ 4. After extracting concordance with keywords in Chinese and English corpus, the colligation is established after observation and analysis. Then, collocation words within the colligation will be classified into positive, neutral and negative categories and the characteristics of their semantic prosodies will be summarized.4. Analysis and Findings4.1 A Study on the Semantic Prosody of "Shaowei"By searching the CCL, 2218 effective concordances containing shaowei, the key word, are hit. After downloading the first 200 and deleting those occurred in the oral text, 195 concordances are left. The colligation of "shaowei" falls into three types as follow:(1) adv + adjEg. 1:大白菜 价钱 稍微 好 一点。dabaicai jiaqian shaowei hao yi dian‘The price of cabbage is slightly higher.’(2) adv + vEg.2:只要 稍微 推 一下 就行了, 无需 费多少 力气。zhiyao shaowei tui yixia jiu xingliao,wuxu feiduoshao liqi‘Yao Ming looks like a stone on the edge of cliff, just a little push, without much effort....’(3) adv + advEg3:由于 稍微 有些早产,所以母亲“甜甜”的奶水 不足。youyu shaowei youxie zaochan ,suoyi muqin “tian tian ” de naishui buzu ‘Because of a little premature, milk of mother, "tiantian", is insufficient’It should be noted that "shaowei" mainly collocates with minimal-degree adverbs, such as "a bit" or "a bit of."Because the software does not automatically recognize the negative, neutral and positive connotation, classification has to be done manually by the researcher. Some collocations, like "slightly stable", "slightly comfortable" can be classified as positive while others, such as "slightly lag behind", "slightly lower" can be classified as negative. Some other neutral words, which often describe the property of things and actions, can not be judged as positive or negative within their colligation, such
 as "large, small, high, low, hot, cool" and so on. In that case, clauses containing such colligation have to be taken into account necessarily. For example:Eg.4:后者 的 头球 稍微 高 出 横梁。 houzhe de touqiu shaowei gao chu hengliang‘The latter's heading slightly over the crossbar.’Eg.5::想 为层次 稍微 高一点的观众 拍 些有xiang wei cen ci shaowei gao yidian de guanzhong pai xie you品味 的 片子。pinwei de pian zi‘Someone wants to make some better films for slightly higher civilized viewers.’The associative meaning of "shaowei + high" can be judged neither positive nor negative by the structure itself. However, in example 4, "the heading over the crossbar" is negative because the heading misses the goal. In example 5, "slightly higher civilized viewers" are better from the speaker’s point of view. Thus, the structure is classified as positive.According to the above description, the associative meaning of shaowei collocation can be classified in Figure 1:Figure 1As shown in Figure 1, the statistical results support neither the hypothesis that shaowei has negative semantic prosody nor that it has positive one, because positive and negative collocations are between 42%-44%. That is to say, they are all close to 50% of the total and there is no significant difference. According to Wei, shaowei has neutral semantic prosody or mixed prosody [2].4.2 A Study on the Semantic Prosody of “a little”In the BROWN online corpus,301 concordances containing the keyword "a little" are hit. After getting rid of 109 concordances, such as the adjective "little" and fixed phrase like "a little while", 192 are left. They are all minimal degree adverbs and fall into three colligations as bellow:(1) ADV+ADJEg. 6 to be a little reckless(2) V + ADVEg. 7:had neglected them a little(3)ADV+ADVEg. 8:he arrived a little lateIt’s worthy of noting that "a little" generally follows verbs, so its structure is “V + ADV”.Just like the Chinese pattern, if the semantic prosody of "a little" can not be judged within its colligation, the researchers should determine the associative meaning within a larger range. As the example shown below:Eg. 9:“fortunately, the house is a little far from here”Eg. 10:“...the house is a little far from here, we have to walk a long path...” 
 If judged within the colligation, it is not clear that the collocation unit is positive or negative, because the expression is just an objective description of traits, for instance, “the house a little far away from here". However, if judged within a larger unit, it is well known that “a little far” is positive in example 9 because of the parenthesis, “fortunately”, in the sentence. In contrast, “a little far” is negative in example 10 because someone "have to walk a long path".According to the classification principles above, the associative meaning of "a little" collocation can be classified in Figure 2: Figure 2As shown in Table 2, "a little" modifies verbs, adjectives and adverbs and their corresponding comparatives, indicating low degree. The positive collocation of "a little" accounts for over 61% and the neutral one is around 18%, while the negative collocation of "a little" is 20% only. According to Sinclair [5], the conclusion can be reached that “a little” has negative prosody, which supports the previous hypothesis.4. Contrastive AnalysisThrough observing the BROWN corpus and CCL corpus, researchers found that both shaowei and "a little" have three types of colligation, namely, they can both co-occur with verbs, nouns and adverbs. However, "a little" frequently collocates with comparatives of English adjectives and adverbs, because English belongs to Indo-European language family and has morphological changes, while Chinese, a Sino-Tibetan language, can only express comparatives by means of lexical devices.In order to facilitate the comparison of shaowei and "a little", analyzing the distribution and the proportion of their semantic prosody, Figure 3 is drawn as below:Figure 3The contrastive analysis, by means of corpus software, shows that the semantic prosodies of"shaowei" and "a little" do not fully correspond with each other. As shown in Table 3, shaowei has neutral or mixed prosody because it can collocate with units with positive, neutral and negative connotation while “a little” tends to have a negative one. Although the authoritative dictionary equates shaowei to "a little", we hold that the equation is debatable after the contrastive analysis of their semantic prosodies. Through this research, we can find that the contrastive analysis of semantic prosodies play an ever increasing role in finding the corresponding rules between two languages. The connotation of words is part of language and insufficiency may lead to difficulties in understanding and communication. Therefore, the contrastive analysis of semantic prosodies is significant in translation, second language acquisition and foreign language teaching [6]. 
 5. ConclusionThe contrastive study of semantic prosody based on corpus reveals that the matching level and relationship between language systems are no longer limited to syntactic and semantic equivalence, but based on a variety of real and specific mutual correspondence which can be observed on the basis of parallel corpus. This study, by means of searching Chinese and English corpus, has examined the differences and similarities between two minimal degree adverbs in Chinese and English, namely, shaowei and "a little". It has been found that shaowei possesses neutral semantic prosody while "a little" tends to have negative one.7. References[1] Stubbs, M. Collocations and semantic profiles: On the cause of the trouble with quantitative methods[J]. Function of Language, 1995, 2 (1).[2] Wei Naixing. A Definition and Research System of Words Collocation [M]. Shanghai: Shanghai Jiaotong University Press, 2002.[3] Partington, A. Utterly Content in Each other's company: Semantic prosody and semantic preference[J]. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 2004(9): 131-56.[4] Liu Danqing. A Handbook of Grammar Investigation [M]. Shanghai: Shanghai Education Press, 2008:534.[5] Sinclair, J. Corpus, concordance and collocation [M]. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1991.[6] Zhao Xiulian, Li Shujuan, A Corpus Driven Study on Cross-language Semantic Prosody--Taking"too" and "tai" as an Example[J], Modern Chinese, 2010, (12):78-80.