Clustering Search Engine Suggestsby Modeling Topics of Web Pages collected with SuggestsAbstractIn this paper, we address the issue of how to overview the knowledge of a given query key- word. We especially focus on concerns of those who search for Web pages with a given query keyword, and study how to ef ciently overview the whole list of Web search infor- mation needs of a given query keyword. First, we collect Web search information needs of a given query keyword through search engine suggests. Although we collect up to around 1,000 suggests given a query keyword, some of them are redundant in that they originate from almost the same Web search information needs. In order to aggregate such redundant search engine suggests, we take an approach of clustering search engine suggests based on a topic model. Evaluation result shows that the proposed clustering approach proves to be quite useful for ef ciently overviewing Web search information needs of a given query key- word. We also develop an interface system for overviewing those aggregated search engine suggests of a given query keyword as well as links to top ranked Web pages that are closely related to those aggregated search engine sug- gests.1 IntroductionThis paper addresses the issue of how to overview the knowledge of a given query keyword. We es- pecially focus on concerns of those who search for Web pages with a given query keyword. The ap- proach we take in this paper is to collect Web search information needs of a given query keyword throughSecond AuthorAf liation / Address line 1 Af liation / Address line 2 Af liation / Address line 3 email@domain                                                                                                                                                                                Figure 1: An Example of Presenting Search Engine Sug- gests as Web Search Information NeedsTable 1: Numbers of Collected Suggests and Web Pages (for Each Query for Evaluation)search engine suggests. Figure 1 shows an example of presenting search engines suggests given a query keyword “就活” (job hunting). Here, the search en- gine collected user search logs including the query keyword “就活” (job hunting) and then presents suggests keywords such as “メール” (e-mail), “面 接” (interview), “2ch” (2channel1), and “メイク” (makeup) which have strong relation to the query term “就活” (job hunting). After collecting those suggest keywords from a search engine, this paper studies how to ef ciently overview the whole list of1The most popular textboard in Japan.   query  “就活” (job hunting)    “結婚” (marriage)  # of suggests 934  989  # of Web pages 13,221  14,413       
Web search information needs of a given query key- word. In the case of a Japanese search engine, we collect up to around 1,000 suggests given a query keyword. Some of those 1,000 suggests are quite re- dundant in that they originate from almost the same Web search information needs. In order to aggregate such redundant search engine suggests, we take an approach of clustering search engine suggests based on a topic model. More speci cally, we collect Web pages by specifying the query keyword and each search engine suggest into a set of Web pages. Then, we apply a topic model to the set of collected Web pages and obtain a certain number of topics. Next, by assigning a topic to each Web page, we collect the set of Web pages that are assigned to each topic. Also, for each topic, we collect search engine sug- gests that are speci ed when retrieving those Web pages assigned to the topic into the set of suggests. Finally, we consider the set of collected search en- gine suggests for each topic as clusters of search en- gine suggests and thus consider them as the result of clustering search engine suggests by modeling top- ics of Web pages collected with suggests.Figure 2 shows the overview of the proposed framework of clustering search engine suggests. Evaluation result shows that the proposed cluster- ing approach proves to be quite useful for ef - ciently overviewing Web search information needs of a given query keyword. We also develop an inter- face system for overviewing those aggregated search engine suggests of a given query keyword as well as links to top ranked Web pages that are closely related to those aggregated search engine suggests. Figure 4 shows the interface for overviewing the knowledge of a query keyword and aggregated Web search re- sults.2 Collecting Search Engine SuggestsFor a given query keyword, we specify about 100 types of Japanese hiragana characters to Google search engine2 and then collect at most about 1,000 suggests. About 100 types of Japanese hiragana characters include Japanese alphabet consisting of about 50 characters, voiced and semi-voiced vari- ants of voiceless characters, and Youon. For ex- ample, when we type in “就活 あ” (“job hunting”,2https://www.google.com/“a”) into the Web search window, we can collect suggests which start with the reading character “あ” (“a”) such as “あいさつ” (“greeting”) and “あなた の強み” (“your strong point”) are collected.For the evaluation of this paper, we use the two queries shown in Table 1, which are “就活” (job hunting) and “結婚” (marriage). Table 1 also shows the numbers of collected search engine suggests.3 Clustering Search Engine Suggests by Modeling Topics of Web Pages3.1 OverviewIn order to aggregate redundant search engine sug- gests collected in the previous section, in this sec- tion, we cluster search engine suggests based on a topic model.Before clustering search engine suggests col- lected for each query, we  rst collect Web pages for each search engine suggest. Here, we use Ya- hoo! Search BOSS API3 to collect 20 URLs. When we collect those Web pages, we examine the AND search of the given query and a search engine sug- gest. For one query, let D be the set of collected Web pages, and we apply a topic model to the document set D. Table 1 shows the numbers of collected Web pages for each of the two query keywords.3.2 Topic ModelAs a topic model, this paper employs LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation) (Blei et al., 2003). Given the number of topics K as well as a set of documents represented by a sequence of words w, LDA esti- mates the distribution p(w | zn) (w ∈ V ) of a word w given a topic zn (n = 1,...,K) as well as that p(zn|d)(n=1,...,K)ofatopiczn givenadocu- ment d, where V is the set of vocabulary4. In this pa- per, we estimate the distributions p(w | zn) (w ∈ V ) and p(zn | d) (n = 1,...,K) by GibbsLDA++5, where the parameters are tuned through a prelimi- nary evaluation as the number of topics K = 50 as well as α = 50/K, β = 0.1.3http://developer.yahoo.com/search/boss4In this paper, as the set V of vocabulary, we use the set of entry titles of the Japanese version of Wikipedia, where the version we used in this evaluation was downloaded in March 2014 and has about 1,407,000 entries.5http://gibbslda.sourceforge.net/  
 Figure 2: Overview of the Framework of Clustering Search Engine Suggests3.3 Assigning a Topic to a Web PageLet D be the set of Web pages, and K be the num- ber of topics. Then, to each Web page d (d ∈ D), we assign the topic zn with the highest probability P(zn|d). Next, for each topic zn, we collect Web pages d to which the topic zn is assigned (i.e., Web pages d for which the topic zu with the highest prob- ability P (zu|d) is the same as zn) into the set D(zn):3.4 Clustering Suggests by Collecting Suggests of a TopicThis section describes how to cluster search engine suggests based on the results of the topic modeling of Web pages collected by specifying search engine suggests.First, let S(d) be a set of suggests that are spec- i ed when retrieving the Web page d. Then, given a topic zn, for each Web page d included in the set D(zn) of Web pages collected for the topic zn, we collect those search engine suggests within the set S(d) into the set S(zn) as below:D(zn) =à  d ∈ D à zn = argmax P(zu|d) S(zn) = S(d)zu (u=1,...,K)d∈D(zn)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 3: Evaluation Result (plots along the changes of the lower bound of frequency of suggests)Finally, we consider the set of collected search en- gine suggests for each topic as clusters of search en- gine suggests and thus consider them as the result of clustering search engine suggests by modeling top- ics of Web pages collected with suggests. For exam- ple, as shown in Figure 2, in the case of search query “就活” (job hunting), those collected 934 suggests are clustered into 50 topics, i.e., clusters.4 EvaluationBefore evaluating the proposed method of cluster- ing search engine suggests, we manually constructed reference clusters for each of the two search queries. For both of the two search queries, the number of reference clusters is 50. Out of the whole clusters created by the proposed clustering method, we only evaluate those consisting of more than one suggests. As the measure for evaluating the clustering results, we use the following recall and precision in terms of identifying pairs of suggests that are included in any of the reference clusters by pairs of suggests that are included in any of the clusters created by the pro-posed method.suggests s and s are included ina reference cluster Csuggests s and s are included ina cluster C created by the proposed methodàR ∩ Sà = àRààR ∩ Sà = àSà  à  s,s àC à  s,s  àCrecall precisionBy varying the lower bound of the frequency in each cluster, Figure 3 shows changes in recall and precisions for each of the two search queries. Ta- ble 2 lists the numbers of suggests that satisfy the lower bound of the frequency as well as the num- ber of clusters that have one or more suggests. As this result shows, both queries have almost simi- lar curves of precision and recall, while the perfor- mance for the query “就活” (job hunting) is better than that of “結婚” (marriage).For the search queries “就活” (job hunting) and “結婚” (marriage), Tables 3 and 4 list excerpts ofR =S =  
Table 2: Numbers of Suggests satisfying the Lower Bound of the Frequency  lower bound of frequency of suggests “就活”(job hunting)  “結婚”(marriage)      # of suggests# of clusters with one or more suggests   # of suggests# of clusters with one or more suggests 1 925   50947   50 2 922   50946   50 3 862   49937   49 4 726   44893   48 5 618   42798   46 6 525   41698   46 7 445   39602   46 8 401   37505   44 9 343   34427   43 10 299   30353   41 11 251   28282   38 12 218   26233   33 13 173   24184   32 14 124   22139   30 15 88   19100   25 16 52   1667   23 17 24   937   16                     search engine suggests collected for each cluster, re- spectively, where the lower bound of their frequen- cies in each cluster is 5. As can be seen from these results, each cluster consists of search engine sug- gests which represent concerns on the query term that are quite similar to each other.5 Overviewing the Clusters of Suggests of a Query Keyword and Aggregated Web Search Results5.1 OverviewThis section describes how we implement an inter- face for overviewing the knowledge of a query key- word and aggregated Web search results. As shown in Figure 4, the interface lists the clusters in the left6. Once one of those clusters is selected to overview within it, search engine suggests included in the6As the label of each cluster, the interface of Figure 4 presents the three suggests which have the highest frequencies within each cluster. In Figure 4, those Japanese cluster labels are manually translated into English.cluster are shown7. Here, it is obviously expected that those suggests included in a cluster are highly redundant. This is de nitely the case for the ex- ample cluster shown in Figure 4, as one can eas- ily identify that most of the suggests in the cluster are simply concerned with group work in the inter- views of job hunting. Since those redundant suggests originate from almost the same Web search informa- tion needs, as shown in the right hand side of Fig- ure 4, the interface in Figure 4 has the function of aggregating Web search results obtained with those redundant suggests. Roughly speaking, in this ag- gregation function, we show the smallest number of URLs, where it is required that each suggest in the cluster is closely related to at least one of those listed URLs. We satisfy this requirement by prefer- ring URLs that are searched for with larger num- bers of suggests than those that are searched for with smaller numbers of suggests.7The interface of Figure 4 presents Japanese search engine suggests, while we manually annotate English translation to all of those listed suggests.  
Table 3: Result of Clustering Search Engine Suggests (excerpts for query: “ 就活”(job hunting)) manually annotated cluster label    suggests collected for the cluster (excerpt of 10 suggests)   hairstyle“ヘアスタイル 女” (hairstyle, woman), “写真 髪型” (photo, hairstyle), “まとめ 髪” (updo hairstyle), “シュシュ” (scrunchy) , “襟足” (neckline), “美容院” (hair salon), “ゆるいパーマ” (loose perm), “ロングヘア”(long hair), “くせ毛 女” (unruly hair, women), “おだんご” (bun hairstyle),    dressing“ネクタイ” (tie), “シューズ” (shoes), “ベルト 色” (belt color),“かばん” (bag), “ピーコート” (pea coat), “シャツ”(dress shirt), “パンプス おすすめ” (pumps, recommendation), “防寒” (cold protection), “グレー スーツ” (gray, suit), “ジャケット ボタン” (jacket, button)    group discussion“グループワーク対策” (group work preparation), “グループディスカッション” (group discussion), “能力” (ability), “グループディスカッション テーマ” (group discussion, theme), “グループワークとは” (group work is), “評価”(evaluation), “評価基準” (evaluation criteria), “グループワーク” (group work), “プレゼン” (presentation) “プレゼン 資料” (presentation, handout),    self analysis“長所 真面目” (advantage, earnest), “長所” (advantage), “座右の銘” (personal motto), “どうなりたいか” (where one wants to be), “軸” (principle), “将来の夢” (dream in the future), “どんな人” (what type of person), “こだわり”(persistence), “なりたい自分” (who one wants to be), “あなたの夢” (your dream)    love affair“恋愛 両立” (love affair, balance), “ふられた” (get dumped ), “恋愛” (love affair), “脈あり” (have some hope),“寂しい” (lonely), “結婚” (marriage), “わがまま” (sel sh), “うまくいかない 彼氏” (have dif culty with relationship to, boyfriend), “プレゼント 彼女” (present, girlfriend), “プレッシャー” (pressure)    makeup“ノーメイク” (without makeup), “ビューラー” (eyelash curler), “チーク” (blush), “化粧” (makeup), “つけま” (false eyelash), “ネイル” (nail art), “まつエク” (eyelash extensions), “まゆげ” (eyebrow), “証明写真 メイク “ (ID photo, makeup), “ペディキュア” (pedicure)         
Table 4: Result of Clustering Search Engine Suggests (excerpts for query: “ 結婚”(marriage)) manually annotated cluster label    suggests collected for the cluster (excerpt of 10 suggests)   celebrate, message“友人 スピーチ” (friend, speech), “祝辞” (congratulations), “一言メッセージ” (message of short words), “ぬいぐるみ” (plushie), “電報 バルーン” (telegram, balloon), “お祝い メッセージ” (celebrate, message),“電報” (telegram), “ビデオメッセージ” (taped message), “ぬいぐるみ メッセージ” (plushie, message),“祝電 文例” (telegram of congratulation, example), “文例 電報 友人” (example, telegram, friend)    condition, deciding factor“妥協 顔” (compromise, looks), “ルックス” (looks), “見極め”(judge), “美人” (beauty), “理想” (ideal), “価値観” (values),“男性 条件” (man, condition), “相手” (partner),“決め手 女性” (deciding factor, woman), “容姿” (looks)    expected income“高望み” (aiming too high), “条件 年収” (condition, annual income), “収入” (income), “平均年収” (average annual income), “条件” (condition), “ランキング職業” (job ranking), “条件 ランキング” (condition, ranking), “年収” (annual income), “求めるもの” (what one asks of)    bridal gift“プレゼント” (present), “ぬいぐるみ 手作り” (plushie, made by hand), “ぬいぐるみ うさぎ” (plushie, rabbit),“プチギフト” (wedding favor handed by bridal couple),“祝い” (celebrate), “贈り物” (gift), “ペアウォッチ” (pair watches), “印鑑” (seal), “サプライズ” (surprise), “寄せ書き” (group efforts)    procedure“入籍 手続き” (registering marriage, procedure), “住民票” (resident card), “苗字 変更” (family name, change), “必要書類” (document required), “住所変更” (change of address), “パスポート” (passport),“会社 手続き” (company, procedure), “外国人” (foreign citizen), “名義変更” (change of name), “グリーンカード” (green card)    photo“写真” (photo), “ポーズ” (pose), “写真 東京” (photo, Tokyo), “写真 大阪” (photo, Osaka), “写真 札幌” (photo, Sapporo), “前撮り” (photos in advance), “写真だけ” (photo only), “ビデオ”(video), “ビデオメッセージ” (taped message), “和装” (Japanese-style clothing)         
 Figure 4: Interface for Overviewing the Clusters of Suggests of a Query Keyword and Aggregated Web Search Results5.2 Detailed Procedure of Aggregating Web Search ResultsLet S be a set of suggests included in a cluster and s(∈ S) be a suggest. Then, we collect Web pages d that are searched for by AND search of the query q and the suggest s, and furthermore are ranked higher than the order N into a set P(s, N ). Also, let rank(d, s) be the rank of the Web page d searched for by AND search of the query q and the suggest s. Next, for each Web page d, we construct the follow- ing set S(d) by collecting suggests s which satisfy d ∈ P(s,N) as below:àS(d)= s∈Sàd∈P(s,N)Now, suppose a certain step of selecting Web pages to be shown as the result of aggregating Web search results, then let Pr be the set of already se- lected Web pages, while Pnr be the set of the oppo-site Web pages, i.e., those that are not selected yet:Pnr = s∈ P(s,N) −PrAlso, let Sr be the union of the set S(d) of the sug- gests, where each Web page d is in Pr, while Snr be the set of the remaining suggests: S(d) Snr = S−SrBased on the preparation so far, we de ne a cost function cost(d, Pr ) of a Web page d which satis es the following requirement: i.e., the more the number of remaining suggests (in Snr) that are closely to d is, the smaller the cost of d is. s∈ Sr =cost(d,Pr) =r(d,Pr)d∈ r
⎧⎪⎨ r a n k ( d , s ) r(d,Pr) = ⎪⎩N + 1i f s ∈/ S rand d ∈ P(s,N) hold otherwisevery rich and useful information source for identi- fying similar queries. In the case of search engine suggests used in the evaluation of this paper, on the other hand, the information available for identify- ing similar search engine suggests are a search en- gine suggest in the form of AND search query and Web pages returned by the search engine only. Fur- thermore, in the case of our approach to collecting Japanese search engine suggests given a query term, we collect about only 1,000 or less suggests by spec- ifying about 100 characters as the  rst character of the second query. Thus, this situation of clustering 1,000 or less suggests based on topic modeling of returned Web pages is quite different from those of previous work on clustering search engine queries using clickthrough data (Leung et al., 2008; Ma et al., 2008; Guo et al., 2010).Another related work includes techniques of clus- tering and summarizing search results (Harashima and Kurohashi, 2010), or those of clustering search results and assigning cluster labels (Toda et al., 2007; de Winter and de Rijke, 2007; Shibata et al., 2009). The approach proposed in this paper and those related work share a certain underlying purpose of overviewing search results by clustering them. However, the approach proposed in this paper is advantageous in that it exploits Web search infor- mation needs collected from search engine suggests, which enables overviewing and clustering search re- sults in terms of Web search information needs.7 ConclusionThis paper addressed the issue of how to overview the knowledge of a given query keyword. We es- pecially focused on concerns of those who search for Web pages with a given query keyword, and studied how to ef ciently overview the whole list of Web search information needs of a given query keyword. We collected Web search information needs of a given query keyword through search en- gine suggests. In order to aggregate such redun- dant search engine suggests, we took an approach of clustering search engine suggests based on a topic model. Evaluation result showed that the pro- posed clustering approach proved to be quite use- ful for ef ciently overviewing Web search informa- tion needs of a given query keyword. We also de-Then, at each step of the procedure below for se- lecting Web pages for aggregated results, we greed- ily select a Web page which has the minimum cost. More speci cally, as Pr being initialized as φ, we continue the following procedure until the condition Snr = φ is to hold:(1) Select a Web page dˆ which has the minimum cost cost(d, Pr ):dˆ = argmin cost(d, Pr ) d∈ nr(2) Update Pr according to the following: ˆPrevious work on clustering search engine queries using clickthrough data such as Leung et al. (2008), Ma et al. (2008), and Guo et al. (2010) are closely re- lated to the proposed approach to clustering search engine suggests. Ma et al. (2008) and Guo et al. (2010) studied how to cluster search engine queries and to recommend similar queries using a search en- gine clickthrough data for the period of from one to a few months. Leung et al. (2008) also focused on the task of personalized clustering of search engine queries, where their proposed method was evaluated with a search engine clickthrough data of 10 to 30 students for 50 to 150 test queries.Compared with those previous work on cluster- ing search engine queries using clickthrough data, this paper focuses on clustering search engine sug- gests but not search engine queries collected from clickthrough data. Search engine queries collected from clickthrough data usually consist of a user ID, a query issued by the user, a URL on which the user clicked, the rank of that URL, and the time at which the query was submitted for search. For example, in the case of clickthrough data used in the previous work (Ma et al., 2008; Guo et al., 2010), it contains more than 10 million lines of clickthrough informa- tion with a few million unique queries. Those arePr ← Pr {d} 6 Related Work
veloped an interface system for overviewing those aggregated search engine suggests of a given query keyword as well as links to top ranked Web pages that are closely related to those aggregated search engine suggests. Future work includes experimental comparison of other clustering techniques including those employed in the previous related work (Leung et al., 2008; Ma et al., 2008; Guo et al., 2010).ReferencesD. M. Blei, A. Y. Ng, and M. I. Jordan. 2003. Latent Dirichlet allocation. Journal of Machine Learning Re- search, 3:993–1022.W. de Winter and M. de Rijke. 2007. Identifying facets in query-biased sets of blog posts. In Proc. ICWSM, pages 251–254.J. Guo, X. Cheng, G. Xu, and H.-W. Shen. 2010. A struc- tured approach to query recommendation with social annotation data. In Proc. 19th CIKM, pages 619–628.J. Harashima and S. Kurohashi. 2010. Summarizing search results using PLSI. In Proc. 2nd Workshop on NLPIX, pages 12–20.K. W.-T. Leung, W. Ng, and D. L. Lee. 2008. Personal- ized concept-based clustering of search engine queries. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineer- ing, 20(11):1505–1518.H. Ma, H. Yang, I. King, and M. R. Lyu. 2008. Learn- ing latent semantic relations from clickthrough data for query suggestion. In Proc. 18th CIKM, pages 709– 718.T. Shibata, Y. Bamba, K. Shinzato, and S. Kurohashi. 2009. Web information organization using keyword distillation based clustering. In Proc. WI-IAT, pages 325–330.H. Toda, R. Kataoka, and M. Oku. 2007. Search result clustering using informatively named entities. In In- ternational Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, volume 23, pages 3–23.