VDEA-Based Lexical Sentimental Orientation AnalysisAbstract: Valency Grammar focuses mainly on studying the deep semantic structure of sentences through analyzing predicates and attaches emphasis upon the dependent relationships between predicates and cooperative elements. Now the grammar is an edged tool to solve the problem of semantic analysis. The Valency-based Dictionary of English Adjective (or VDEA) constructed in this study is a machine-readable dictionary based on Valency Grammar. VDEA covers 3170 English adjectives and relevant semantic information such as valency relationships, case relationships, explanation, commendatory and derogatory meanings, semantic classification, semantic features and examples etc [1]. Based on the dictionary, the study designed a lexical sentimental orientation analysis model and the experimental result is satisfactory.Keywords: Valency Grammar; adjective; sentimental orientation1 ForwordThe compilation and research of dictionary is playing more and more important role in the study of foreign languages, cultural communication and natural language processing. China has witnessed 200 years of rapid development of dictionary compilation (the first dictionary was published in 1815), and during these years both the dictionary resources of different languages and means of compilation are improved greatly. More and more dictionaries which cover various fields such as grammar, computer, dialect etc come out and exert great effects upon our work and life[2].Valence Grammar was firstly put forward by Lucien Tesniere in the 1950s. He used the concept of valence in his Esquisse d′une SyntaxeStructurale in 1959. The appearance of Valence Grammar improves the studies of grammar on one hand, on the other it accelerated the development of dictionary compilation.[3] More and more dictionaries based on Valence Grammar were compiled and used in grammar teaching and learning. Similar to verb, adjective can also control the components relating to it. Both verbs and adjectives are treated as “original carrier of valence”, and G.Helbig called verb as “the main carrier of valence” and adjective as “hypo-carrier of valence”. Therefore, the studies of adjective valence become indispensable in semantic analysis. Semantic repository of adjectives has become an important part of the semantic repository of NLP.2 Design and implementation of VDEAThe study manually designed and realized VDEA, on the basis of considering the characteristics of English adjectives and some relevant descriptive methods of semantic knowledge. VDEA, a rule-based semantic dictionary, refers to some other grammar theories such as Case Grammar, Semantic Net and Semantic Framework. Besides, The study also refers to the Generalized Valence Mode of Zhan Weidong[4], and VDEA covers basic classification of English adjectives, semantic classification of English adjectives, sentimental classification of English adjectives, case of complements, characteristics of complements, praise and blame classification of English adjectives, estimation of valence number and syntactic structure. Semantic information cannot be used by computers automatically until it is abstracted, formalized, coded. The dictionary formalized the semantic information through adopting appropriate signs which enable it to be applicable in various fields of NLP such as MT,
Natural Language Understanding, and sentimental orientation analysis of texts.order to expand the semantic content and future application of the dictionary. VDEA includes 6 tables which can be classified into two types: chief table and supplement table. Chief table, the core of VDEA, refers to the valence information table of English adjectives which covers over 3100 English adjectives and relevant semantic information. Supplement tables include 6 tables: semantic classification table of adjectives, sentimental classification table of adjectives, basic classification table of adjectives, case table of complements, semantic feature table of complements and formalization type table of complements. The general structure of VDEA is as follows:2.1Resources of VDEAVDEA, is mainly for the purpose of semantic analysis and application of NLP, and therefore the dictionary covers many different forms of semantic information extracted from other relevant dictionaries. The dictionaries, mainly include Herbst’s A Valency Dictionary of English(2004)[5], New Oxford English Dictionary(2001), the Arrangement Structure Dictionary of English Adjective(2004), the Classification Dictionary of English Adjective(2004), A Dictionary of Chinese Praise and Blame Words(2000),Diction of English Adjective(2005), Dictionary of Phrasal Verbs(1989) and some electronic language resources on the internet such as HowNet, WordNet etc.2.2 Tool and method of building VDEAThe dictionary adopts Microsoft Office Access 2003 as the building tool. As a powerful tool of database management system supplied by Microsoft’s Office, Microsoft Office Access 2003 has various virtues upon building and managing database. For instance, it has a simple structure, is good at processing two-dimension table and the relations of tables, has excellent ability of sharing data with other data resources such as Word and Excel, is able to support various data types such as XML, OLE, ODBC, SQL Server etc.2.3 Design and implementation of VDEA[1]2.3.1 General design of VDEAThe study refers to the framework of VCSD of Peking University but improves greatly in many places, such as adding some information about sentiments to the semantic information inFigure1: General structure of VDEA2.3.2 Design of tablesAfter the general design of database, what follows is the concrete design of all the tables of the database, which includes structure design, attributes design and so on.a) Thief table: valence information table of adjectivesAs the core content of the database, valence information table of adjectives covers almost all the semantic information useful in NLP, and therefore the table’s attributes are copious and detailed. It covers words itself, pronunciation, semantic items, basic classification, semantic classification, praise or blame classification, sentimental classification, explanation, valence number, semantic features of subject and object, syntactic structure etc. The chief table structure is as follows: 
forward by Xu Linhong(2008) which classifies all the sentiments into eight types. The marking of these eight types of sentiments adopts the capital letter “F” and Arabic numerals.  Figure2: Valence information table of adjectivesDetailed description of the attributes is as follows:(1) Pronunciation.(2) Basic classification of adjectives[6]. The adjectives contained in the database are divided according to six different aspects: dynamic state or static state, human or not, controllable or not, abstract or not, self-determination or not, sense or not. In the process of marking, “[]”,”+”,”-“,”|” and”±” are used together with capital letter “A” to represent the features of each adjective. For instance, “able” can be marked as “A[dynamic]|A[+human]|A[-sense]” in which “A” represent “adjective” and “|” refers to assembling relationship. The detailed classification is as follows:(3) Semantic items.(4) Explanation.(5) Praise and blame classification:Thestudy classifies all the adjectives in the database, in accordance with commendatory and derogatory polarity, into three types: commendatory type, derogatory type and neutral type, and marks them with “+”, “-” and “=” respectively.(6) Sentimental classification [7]:Sentimental classification is the basic project for computer to analyze the sentiments of language. This study adopts the method of sentimental classification putFigure3: Sentimental classification of adjectives(7) Valence number[8-9].(8) Semantic classification.(9) Subject and object.(10) Syntactic structure, syntacticformalized representation and examples.b) Auxiliary tables of VDEAOnly semantic classification table and Sentimental classification table are introduced briefly. Semantic classification table of adjectives contains three attributes: serial number which serves as the main key to connect with the chief table, marking symbol which formalizes each type of adjectives and the name of adjective classification. Semantic classification table of adjectives is also called semantic feature table of adjectives which is constituted by three hypo-class tables: hypo-class table 1, hypo-class table 2, and hypo-class table 3. The detailed table is as follows:
 Figure4: Semantic classification table of adjectivesSentimental classification table of adjectives covers sentimental features of adjectives of the chief table. Semantic feature table of complements covers the information that represents different or similar factors inside words, and can also be treated as the detailed classification of semantic types[4]. The detailed table is as follows:3 VDEA-based lexical sentimental orientation analysis[10-12]Different from HowNet and other semantic knowledge database,VDEA makes a clear classification of English adjectives according to hierarchical structure. It covers the classification and semantic information which includes semantic types, sentimental types, appraisal types, valence relationships and semantic features etc. 3170 adjectives are further classified into 5 types, 35 sub-types and 30 sentimental types. Complements are classified into 139 semantic types and 25 semantic cases. [1]According to the structure of VDEA, the study gets the theoretical basis for adjective sentimental orientation analysis:(1) The adjectives of the same appraisal and sentimental type have the same or similar sentimental orientation. For example: accomplished and adamant are both commendatory and praiseful words.(2) The adjectives of the same semantic type have similar or opposite appraisal orientation. For example, admirable and adverse are both"situation" words, but their appraisal orientation are opposite.(3) The synonyms have the same appraisal type while antonyms the opposite.(4) Adjective will affect the appraisal orientation directly or indirectly.The lexical sentimental orientation algorithm mainly includes the following steps:● Selecting feature words subjectively. Firstly we select some adjectives with distinct appraisal features from VDEA and the number is restricted within suitable scale.● Selecting feature words statistically. With the help of Google, we check the number of "Hits" of the selected adjectives and select some adjectives with more "Hits" from the selected words. At last we get N pairs of adjectives with appraisal features.● Semantic distance calculation of adjectives. After subjective and statistical selection, we treat the selected adjectives as the feature words and compare these adjectives with testing words. According to the coding of semantic types, we can easily get the semantic distance between feature words and testing adjectives.● Sentimental distance calculation of adjectives. After subjective and statistical selection, we treat the selected adjectives as the feature words and compare these adjectives with testing adjectives. According to the coding of sentimental types, we can easily get the sentimental distance between feature words and testing adjectives.● Similarity calculation of adjectives. Based on the result of semantic and sentimental distance, we can get similarity value of adjectives.● Sentimental orientation calculation of adjectives. We set a suitable valve value and make a contrast between the valve value and similarity value. The comparative result will indicate the appraisal types of adjectives.
The representation of VDEA-based lexical sentimental orientation algorithm is as follows:The similarity of each explanation depends on the similarity of sememes, and each explanation includes four parts: independent sememes, other sememes, relational sememes and symbol sememes. So in the process of similarity calculation, the above four parts must be taken into consideration. The formula is as follows:Sim(P1,P2)=A/(D+A)P1 and P2 is two sememes, A is the lengthof path between P1 and P2 and D is adjustable parameter. The formula is as follows:4iSim S1, S2 = βi Simj(S1, S2) i−1 j−1In this formula, βi(1≤i≤4) is adjustable parameter and is be up to the mustard: β1+β2+β3+β4=1,β1≥β2≥β3≥β4. Sim1(S1,S2)、Sim2(S1,S2)、Sim3(S1,S2) and Sim4(S1,S2) represent four parts of explanation.Based on the specific characteristics of VDEA, this study makes some improvement upon Liu’s algorithm and the process covers two steps:(1) Judging the relationship of synonymy and antonym of the selected 20 pairs of feature adjectives according to the relevant information covered in VDEA and giving a direct judgement.(2) Calculating similarity of testing words and feature words according to the semantic distance and sentimental distance. For example, the semantic signs of abstract and abundant are “A226” and “A2115”. Firstly “A21” covers 16 sub-class meanings and the distance between “A2115” and “A21” is 15. Secondly, “A22” covers 9 sub-class meanings and the distance between “A226” and “A22” is 6. Consequently, the distance between “A21” and “A22” is 1. Therefore, the distance of abstract and abundant is 22. The sentimental distance can be calculated with the same method and, based on the above two distance, we can get the semantic similarity. The formula is as follows: Testing words  Feature words    Similarity calculation SEMANTICDISTANCE SENTIMENTALDISTANCEVDEA    Orientation calculation  Appraisal classificationFigure5: Lexical sentimental orientation analysis process3.1 Selection of feature wordsVarious classification methods of VDEA make the task of selecting feature words convenient, and the process of selection covers the following steps:● Firstly, selecting 600 adjectives manually from VDEA.● according to the number of “hits” in Google, 200 adjectives with higher “hits” number are selected.● based on the semantic, sentimental and appraisal classification information of VDEA, 20 pairs of adjectives is selected consequently.3.2 Lexical semantic similarity algorithmLiuQun[13] put forward HowNet-based lexical semantic similarity algorithm in which he treats two independent lexical similarity problems as two conceptual similarity problems. For example, W1 has N explanations while W2 has M explanations, and therefore the similarity of the above two words is the maximum value of all explanations of two words. The formula is as follows:Sim(W1, W2)=Max Sim(S1i,S2j) (i∈[1,n], j∈[1,m])
Sim1(W,Pij)=A/(D1j +A) j∈[1,20]) 1Sim2(W,Pij)=A/(D2j +A) j∈[1,20]) 2(i∈[1,2]; (i∈[1,2];In the formula, S1 represents integrate similarity values between commendatory testing and 20 pairs of feature adjectives while S2 derogatory adjectives. γ and δ are adjustable parameters.3.4 Experimental resultAccording to the method of selecting words, 5, 10 and 20 pairs of adjectives are selected from VDEA and the coding table of the feature adjectives (5 pairs) is as follows:Table 1: feature adjectives and coding table (semantic|sentimental)5 pairs of feature adjectivesIn the formula, W is testing adjective while P1j commendatory feature adjective, P2j derogatory feature adjective and A adjustable parameter. D1j and D2j represent the distance from W to P1j and P2j repectively. Sim1 and Sim2 represent semantic similarity and sentimental similarity. From the formula 1 and formula 2, we can get similarity value, serial value, and the maximum value will taken as the similarity value of testing adjective and feature adjective. The details are shown in the following formulas:commendatoryderogatoryAble(A36—F23) brave(A32—F21) new(A225—F8) adamant(A32—F21) wary(A32—F8)Mad(A34—F63)terrible(A1—F71) cruel(A32—F63)old (A31—F8)poor(A34—F8)    Sim1(W,Pi)=Max Sim1(W,Pij) j∈[1,20]) 3Sim2(W,Pi)=Max Sim2(W,Pij) j∈[1,20]) 4(i∈[1,2];(i∈[1,2];   Sim1(W,Pi) represents maximum value of lexical semantic similarity while Sim2(W,Pi) maximum value of lexical sentimental similarity. The integrate similarity of testing and feature adjectives, based on the above values, can be calculated through the following formula:Sim(W,P)= αSim1(W,Pi) +βSim2(W,Pi)(α、β∈[0,1],α<β且i∈[1,2]) 5 Sim(W,P) represents the ultimate integrate similarity while α and β are adjustableparameters.3.3 Sentimental orientation calculationBased on the integrate similarity value, we estimate the sentimental orientation of testing words. Based on HowNet Zhu Yanlan[14] put forward lexical sentimental orientation algorithm and Yang Yibing[15] makes some improvement upon Zhu’s algorithm. Based on the characteristics of VDEA, this paper also makes some amendments by introducing the maximum value of sentimental similarity as an adjusting element, and the formula is as follows:Orientation(W)=[γS1+δSim2(W,Pi)]-[γS2 +δSim2(W,Pi)] (i∈[1,2]) 6Taking good (A228—F2) as a testing word, we can get the semantic distance and sentimental distance, and the result is as follows:Table 2: semantic and sentimental distance   Semantic distanceSentimental distanceCommendatory 17,13,3,13,13derogatory 15,12,13,12,15Commendatory 3,1,7,3,3Derogatory 7,8,7,6,6        After calculation and analysis using the above 6 formulas, we can get acceptable similarity value we give the parameters suitable values. The precision rate of sentimental orientation we got from different feature word sets is as follows:  100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0%5 pairs 10 pairs 20 pairs              123
Figure 6: commendatory and derogatory polarity precision rate of various sets of featureword (%)In the graph blue, yellow and red columnrepresent commendatory words, derogatory words and average precision rate respectively.Of course, the more pairs of feature adjectives, the more objective the experimental result is. According to the result, the accuracy rate of commendatory word is lower than derogatory word as a result of different lexical features. Two methods can be applied to improve precision rate: the first is improving the number and coverage of feature adjectives. The second is optimizing the calculation method. The adjustable parameters should be analyzed based on more testing so that we can get more suitable parameters which are favorable for improving the precision rate of lexical sentimental orientation analysis.4 ConclusionThe paper explores a new path of analyzing and processing semantic and sentimental information of English adjectives with semantic valency and sentimental information as its chief research object. The study filled the gap of adjective valency study in our country and further expanded the research scale of Valency Grammar. Besides, based on VDEA dictionary, the paper put forward lexical sentimental orientation analysis model. In this model, the maximum value of sentimental similarity is used as adjustable parameter in the process of sentimental analysis, and also the paper a new method of sentimental orientation analysis in which semantic distance and sentimental distance are coordinated with each other to calculate lexical sentimental orientation. Sentimental application is the main purpose of VDEA dictionary, but with continuous enrichment, improvement and adjustment, VDEA could be applied to various fields of NLP, such as semantic analysis, information retrieval, MT and so on.References[1] Huang Jinzhu,Yi Mianzhu.the Design and Implementation of VDEA[A].4th International Universal Communication Symposium [C].2010:324-330.[2] Huang Shuo.the construction and application of Chinese sentimental knowledge base[D]. Master Thesis of Beijing University of Post.2013.[3] Hua Zengde.Germany Valence Essentials[M].Beijing:Higher Education Press.2005.[4] Zhan Weidong.Valency-based Chinese Semantic Dictionary[J].Application of Language.2001,(1):37-43.[5] Herbst, T. A Valency Dictionary of English [K]. New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 2004.[6] Fu Yufang.Classification Dictionary of Normal Adjectives[K].Shang Hai: Shang Hai University Press, 2004. [7] Bkyt T et al. Polarity classification of celebrity coverage in the Chinese press [A]. In Proceeding of the 2005 International Conference on Intelligence Analysis [C], Mclean,USA[EB/OL].http://analysis.mitre.org/Proceedings/i ndex.html. [2010-08-12].[8] Qiu Tian. The Study of Modern Chinese Bivalent Adjective[D]. Master Thesis of Northeast Normal University,2006.[9] Wang Fujun.the Valency of Character Adjective[J].Journal of Changchun Education College. 2013(6):27-33.[10] Zhou Yongmei,Yang Jianeng.the Chinese sentimental dictionary construction method applying to text sentimental analysis[J].Journal of Shandong University. 2013(6):27-33. [11] Pan Wenbing.Sentimental dictionary-based Chinese sentence sentimental analysis[D]. Master Thesis of Beijing University of Post.2011.[12] Zhang Chenggong,Liu Peiyu. A polarity dictionary-based sentimental analysis[J]. Journal of Shandong University. 2012,47(3):47-50.[13] Liu Qun,Li Sujian.HowNet-based lexical semantic similarity algorithm[OL]. http://www.wenku.baidu.com/view/6213af995/e79b8968022 660.html. [2010-09-28].[14] Zhu Yanlan.HowNet-based lexical semantic similarity algorithm[J].Journal of Chinese Information Processing,2007,20(1):14-20.
[15] Yang Yibing,Wu Xianwei.Improved HowNet-based lexical sentimental orientation algorithm[J]. Computer Engineering and Applications,2009,45(21):91-93.