Attribute Highlight Principle of V+A Constructions in Mandarin —Concurrently Discuss the Nominalization of the Adjectival ObjectsAbstractIn Mandarin, verb-object constructions are usually composed of verbs(V) and nouns(N). However, adjectives(A) can also act as objects. Examples are: 打黑 da-hei ‘anti-crime’, 显老 xian-lao ‘look older’, 图便宜 tu-pian-yi ‘for being cheap’, 觉得脏 jue-de-zang ‘feel dirty’, 充 满 热 情 chong-man-re-qing ‘full of enthusiasm’. This study first points out that there are some problems in the assumption of the ‘nominalization’ of adjectival objects. Then, it analyzes some examples of V+A verb-object constructions. Furthermore, it proposes the Attribute Highlight Principle of V+A verb- object constructions by borrowing the metonymy theory. The principle core is the attributions which the adjectival objects represent are the highlights or the most wanted highlights of the thing nouns. It realizes the ‘attribute-entity’ effective mapping through the intervention of cognitive experience. As a result, it realizes the legitimacy of V+A verb-object constructions at syntactic level. Based on this, the study formulates the syntactic and semantic relations of V+A verb-object constructions. It further shows that there are correlations between the adjectival objects and the thing nouns in semantics, while there is no nominalization in syntax.1 IntroductionVerb-Object construction is an important syntactic type in Mandarin. It is also a research emphasis. Scholars as Ding(1961), Chao(1968), Lv(1971), etc. claimed that besides nouns, non-nominal elements such as verbs, adjectives can also act as objects. Chao (1968) argued that ‘when the object is an adjective or a verb, the chance of frequent association, usually with lexicality of meaning, is much greater than with nouns’. Zhu (1982)distinguished verbs with nominal objects and verbs with non-nominal objects explicitly. He also gave detailed descriptions of these objects. Now, Chinese scholars have already obtained consistency in classification and qualitative of verb-object constructions in Mandarin. Objects are governed by verbs. According to the properties of the objects, verb-object constructions are divided into two varieties. One is verbs with nominal objects (the objects are usually nouns, we refer to these as V+N in the following sections). The other is verbs with non-nominal objects (the objects are usually verbs, adjectives, we refer to these as V+V, V+A in the following sections).Many scholars focus on V+N constructions in currently research. There are complex relations between verbs and objects, which have important impact on syntax and pragmatic. Therefore, the exploration of the semantic relations between verbs and objects become a focal point for different linguistic schools. Compared with V+N, the researches on V+V, V+A are infrequent.Researches on V+A verb-object constructions mainly focus on semantic meanings of verbs, adjectives and the semantic relations between them. All of these researches are easiness. Some scholars give their different perspectives. For example, Zhang (2006) argued that monosyllable adjectives are easier to act as objects than double syllable adjectives. He also pointed out that adjectives act as objects is a kind of metonymy. It uses attributes to reference things by the cognitive pattern of ‘thing- attribute’. He also argued that there are variable degrees on the nominalization of adjectival objects. We approve that adjectives act as objects is a kind of metonymy, but V+A constructions are much more complex than the current research. For example, are there some distiguishes in V+A constructions? Should we keep the idea that adjectives act as objects is a nominalization
phenomenon? All of these questions are far away from systematical and consistent explanations.In this study, we focus on V+A verb-object constructions (we use ‘V+A verb-object constructions’ for the follwing reason: there are different opinions on words and phrases, in order to avoid this debate and to consider the less influence on this study). Based on a large-scale copus, we summarize different types of V+A constructions and analyze them in syntax and semantics. Then, we propose the ‘Attribute Highlight Principle’ by borrowing the metonymy theory in cognitive perspective.The principle core is attributions which the adjectival objects represent are the highlights or the most wanted highligts of the thing nouns. It realizes the ‘attribute-entity’ effective mapping through the intervention of cognitive experience. As a result, it realizes the legitimacy of V+A verb- object constructions at syntactic level. The principle makes detailed descriptions on V+A verb-object constructions and grasps the salient aspects of the constructions. Futhermore, it shows the syntactic and semantic relations of V+A constructions.2 Examples and AnalysisIn an attempt to formulate the V+A verb-object constructions comprehensively, we use three different corpora: a web fiction corpus, a literature corpus and a news corpus. We download the web fiction texts from the website which consist of 160 million words, and literature texts which consist of 540 million words, and the news corpus comes from Sina news in 2012 and consists of 800 million words. Then we use ICTCLAS1 (Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Lexical Analysis System) to word segmentation and PoS tagging. Then, we establish the news-literature corpus which consists of 1.5 billion words. All statistical data and examples are from this corpus.Analysis of the instances of V+A constructions in the news-literature corpus reveals the following two types of semantic relations, which we refer to as Type A and Type B:A: 1 Dou-you jia-ge zheng-ti qu-wen.Soybean oil price overall tend to steady1 Although it is the best Chinese lexical analysis auto-system, there are still some mistakes in word segmentation and PoS tagging. In this study, we directly count and extract examples“The price of soybean oil tends to steady.” 2 Zui-chun fa-bai.Lips turn-white“(Your) lips turn white.”3 Zhe-jian yi-fu kan-shang-qu xian-lao.This cloth look like look-older“This cloth makes you look older.” B:4Chong-qing da-hei yun-dong jin-xing zheng- han.Chongqing anti-crime activities doing well“Anti-crime activities in Chongqing are in full swing.”5 Ri-ben yi jie-chou fang-shi liang-fan dui Mei-guo shi-ya.Japan use show urgly the way continue to USA put pressure“Japan continues to put pressure on USA by recriminating it.”In Type A, there are subject-predicate relations between the main subjects 价格 jia-ge ‘the price’, 嘴唇 zui-chun ‘lips’ and the adjectival objects 稳 wen ‘steady’, 白 bai ‘white’ respectively in 12. In other words, it means 价格稳 jia-ge wen ‘the price is steady’, 嘴唇白 zui-chun bai ‘lips are white’. The price can fluctuate around the value, so it has attributes of ‘steady’ and ‘unsteady’; lips have an attribute of colour, ‘white’ is a subordinate of colour, so we can also refer to ‘white’ as an attribute of lips. As we can see, there is a direct subject- predicate relation between 价格 jia-ge ‘the price’ and 稳 wen ‘steady’. There is an indirect subject- predicate relation between 嘴唇 zui-chun ‘lips’ and 白 bai‘white’. Therefore, 1 2 are two different types: the adjectives have direct or indirect subject- predicate relations with the subject nouns.There is no subject-predicate relation between the main subject 衣服 yi-fu ‘cloth’ and the adjectival object 老 lao‘old’ in 3. While there is a potential noun which have a subject-predicate relation with the adjective. In 3, 老 lao ‘old’ appearently does not have a subject-predicate relation with 衣服 yi- fu ‘cloth’, but there must be a noun that have a relation with 老 lao ‘old’. According to our cognitive experience, when we say ‘This clothwithout review and analyze the results manually. The examples and statistical bias from this method may have some impacts on the study, but in this study we pay no attention at all. 
makes you look older’, we mean ‘a person is old’, so 老 lao‘old’ should have a subject-predicate relation with ‘(a) person’. In the literature-news corpus, the presence of the nouns(which are relevant to adjectives) are uncertainty. It depends on context and other factors. Essentially, there is no difference between 12and 3, so we treat them as a same type(Type A).In Type B, it is very different from Type A. The adjectival objects 黑 hei‘black’, 丑 chou‘urgly’ represent ‘black powers’,‘urgly and bad things’. We refer to 黑 hei ‘black’, 丑 chou ‘urgly’ to modify the nouns ‘powers’ ‘things’ respectively. The relations between them are head-modifier. Theattributes of the adjectives are the highlights which of the thing nouns.To sum up, the features of V+A verb-object constructions are the following:1.Structure: verb-object constructions which consist of verbs and adjectives.2.Meaning: both types have a related noun. There are subject-predicate relations or head-modifier relations between adjectives and nouns. In order to describe the relations clearly, we formalize Type A(subject-predicate relations) as:V+(N+A); we formalize Type B(head-modifier relations)as: V+(A+N).We summarize the syntactic and semantic features of V+A constructions in Figure 1: Figure 1 Frame Digram of Syntactic and Semantic Features of V+A Verb-Object Constructions3 Analysis of the Nominalization of the Adjectival ObjectsSome scholars working on Mandarin held the assumption that ‘there are variable degrees on the nominalization of adjectival objects’ (Zhang, 2006). Some argued that Type B(examples are 打黑 da-hei ‘anti-crime’,揭丑 jie-chou ‘recrimination’,尊老 zun-lao ‘respect the elders’, 招新 zhao-xin ‘recruitfreshmen’ ) should be treated as V+N verb-object constructions. It means the adjectives as same as nouns in verb-object constructions. They thought that 黑 hei ‘black’,丑 chou ‘urgly’,老 lao ‘old’,新 xin ‘new’ have already nominalized. So they have nominal meanings. The adjectives represent people and things. According to their ‘nominalization’ opinion, the frame digram of syntactic structures of V+A Constructions as following:
 Figure 2 Frame Digram of Syntactic Structures of V+A Verb-Object ConstructionsAccording to the ‘nominalization’ opinion, the structures of Type A and Type B are VP→V+NP. There are several problems about it:1. Ignore the analysis of semantic relations. We can build relations between the adjectives and the relative nouns through the cognitive experience as we mentioned before. While the result of the assumption of ‘nominalization’ is that we will ignore the nouns and the functions of nouns. As a result, we will ignore the semantic relations between the adjectives and the nouns.2. Do not distinguish the different semantic relations. As shown in Figure 2, it is obviously that it lacks of analysis of semantic relations. It results in distinguish the relations indefinitely.3.The scholars who hold the idea of nominalization argued that the adjectives lose some typical features of degrees. That means, it is limited to co-occur with degree words. For example,你放轻 松 ni fang qing-song ‘relax yourself’→你放很/太 轻 松 ni fang hen/tai qing-song ‘very relax yourself’*. The functions of adjectives in Mandarin are variable, but it does not mean that when an adjective act as an object, it needs to show all of its functions. For example, when an adjective acts as a modifier, it also cannot co-occur with degree words. Example: 红 花 hong-hua ‘red flowers’→ 很 红 花 hen-hong-hua ‘very red flowers’*. It shows that when an adjective co-occurs with some words, itwill highlight one or two of its functions. At the same time, it will coerce the others. Therefore, ‘the adjectives lose some typical features of degrees’ is not a reasonable explanation to the nominalization of the adjectives.In short, the assumption of ‘nominalization’ of the adjectives cannot formulates V+A verb-object constructions in a semantic perspective. So it needs us to think deeply: what is the connotation of the adjectival objects in V+A constructions? Why the absence of the related nouns can form grammatical constructions and do not result in misunderstanding? According to metonymy theory, we propose the Attribute Highlight Principle of V+A verb-object constructions in Mandarin.4 Attribute Highlight PrincipleMetonymy as a conceptual phenomenon was proposed by Lakoff and Jonhson (1980). They pointed out that metonymy as an important cognitive pattern exists in our daily life. It has impact on our ideas and actions. In this study, we use the interpretation of F. Ungerer and H-J. Schmid (2009), which taking metonymy as a relationship between a source concept and a target concept in a same cognitive pattern. The relationship within a socially accepted mapping scope that prototypically corresponds to a cognitive model. The source concept is the explaining element, the
target concept is the explained element. In V+A verb-object constructions, the adjective (A) is source concept, nouns (N) is target concept. In the study, we use the mapping of conceptual metonymies which was proposed by F. Ungerer and H-J. Schmid (2009).According to the mapping, firstly we use the conceptual mentonymy to explain 打黑 da-hei ‘anti- crime’,揭丑 jie-chou ‘recrimination’ in Type B. 黑 hei ‘black’, 丑 chou ‘urgly’ will be referred to as source concepts, ‘black powers’,‘urgly and bad things’ will be referred to as target concepts. It is obviously that 黑 hei ‘black’,丑 chou ‘urgly’ are the highlighted attributes of the thing nouns. In order to make metonymy plays its role, there must be a relation between the attribute and the thing. The most important point is the thing must be a socially accepted concept. This concept acts as the mapping scope of metonymy. So the mapping scope of 打黑 da-hei‘anti-crime’, 揭 丑 jie-chou‘recrimination’ must be a socially accepted cognitive model. The cognitive model is an association pattern between concepts which based on people’s cognitive experience. The cognitive model builds a constant connection between the elements. Once one of them is activated, the others are activated too. As a result, the presence of the source concept ‘attribute’ will activate the target concept ‘thing’. For exapmle, there is a cognitive model of 打黑 da-hei‘anti- crime’: people know that there are some black powers and bad things in society, and they have verybad influences, so the government takes actions to deal with them. According to this cognitive model, people can use their cognitive experience to understand 黑 hei ‘black’, and the connotation of 打 黑 da-hei‘anti-crime’.Secondly, for Type A there are two varieties: one is the related nouns appear in the senctence, the other one is the related nouns absent from the senctence. Both varieties shows that the adjectives have relations with the nouns, and the attributes of adjectives are the highlights or the most wanted highligts of the thing nouns. For example, 显老 xian-lao‘look older’ in ‘This cloth makes you look older’. It means that the cloth makes someone looks older. According to the cognitive model, the source concept 老 lao‘old’ connects with the target concept 人 ren ‘person’ to achieve the legitimacy of syntax and semantic.To sum up, we propose the Attribute Highlight Principl of V+A verb-object constructions: the attributions which the adjectival objects represent are the highlights or the most wanted highlights of the thing nouns. The ‘attribute-entity’ effective mapping is an ‘abstract-entity’ mapping. It achieves and expands the usage of ‘part-whole’ image schema through the intervention of cognitive experience. It further realizes the legitimacy of V+A verb-object constructions at syntactic level. This is the connatation of V+A verb-object constructions. According to this, the mapping of V+A verb- object constructions as Figure 3: Figure 3 The Mapping of V+A Verb-Object Constructions So far, we will use the Attribute HighlightPrinciple to explain the above questions. The reason
of the absence of the related nouns can form grammatical constructions and do not result in misunderstanding is:According to the Attribute Highlight Principle, attributions which the adjectival objects represent are the highlights or the most wanted highligts of the5 Analysis of the Syntactic and Semantic Relations of V+A constructionsAccording to the Attribute Highlight Principle, we use tree structure to describe the syntactic and semantic relations of Type A and Type B of V+Athing nouns. People can grasp the relations between the adjectival objects and nouns under the cognitive model. Furthermore, it achieves ‘attribute-entity’ effective mapping. In addition to the simplicity of language, there are lots of V+A constructions are used in daily life.verb-object constructions. As shown in Figure 4, the full line represents the syntactic relations, the dotted line represents the related nouns are draw on the semantic relations, ‘[]’means the entities which are represented by the nouns(not limited by the exmaples). Figure 4 The Syntactic Structure and Semantic Relations of V+A Verb-Object ConstructionsAs shown in Figure 4, we refer to the structures of Type A and Type B as VP→V+VP. The main difference between Figure 2 and Figure 4 is that structures in Figure 2 are VP→V+NP, and they use adjectives to highlight the related nouns. While according to the Attribute Highlight Principle, adjectives are the highlighted parts. There are only semantic relations between nouns and adjectives. On the other hand, the presence of the related nouns in Type A depend on context and other factors. So no matter the absence or presence of the nouns, there is no difference on the relations. And that is the reason why we draw the same tree structure to Type A.According to Figure 4, we should distinguish the syntactic level and the semantic level explicitly. The connation of V+A constructions should befurther described as: syntactically, this kind of verb- object constructions consist of verbs and adjectives; semantically, there are related nouns which have relations with the adjectives. The relations between them are subject-predicate or head-modifier relations.The entities of ‘attribute-entity’ relations in adjectives and nouns have further concretization. For example, 稳 wen ‘steady’ in Figure 4 can be concretized as: steady <---> [price/income]. This kind of concretization makes the relations clearer.Furthermore, we point out that: the referential function of the adjectival objects become stronger in pragmatic.What needs to mention is that it is not because of the adjectival objects tend to nominalization, it is because of the objects ask the elments which occur on these positions must
highlight the referential function. The reason why many sholars hold the assumption of the adjectival objects tend to nominalization, is that they take the standards of nonimal objects as the standards of objects. In other words, when we discuss what kind of elments can act as objects and why can they act as objects, the standards come from the nominal objects, not the objects. We think it does not accord with Chao et al. anaylsis of the non-nominal objects in Mandarin. And if Chao’s opinion is right (the chance of an adjectival or verbal object was much greater than a noun object), taking the standards of nominal objects as the standard of objects may be inconsistent with the fact of language.In summary, we anaylze the syntactic and semantic relations of V+A verb-object constructions. We also verify the ability of explaination of the Attribute Highlight Principle. The principle can distinguish the differences between the syntactic level and the semantic level. It makes the relations between syntax and semantic clearly. It also gives explicitly explainations to V+A verb-object constructions.6 ConclusionsThis study borrows the metonymy theory to formulate V+A verb-object constructions. It discusses the problems of nominalization, then proposes the Attribute Highlight Principle. According to this principle, V+A constructions like 发白 fa-bai ‘turn white’, 打黑 da-hei ‘anti-crime’ highligt the attributes and activate the relative thing nouns by the intervention of cognitive model. Furthermore, it analyzes the syntactic and semantic relations and points out that: the adjectival objects have stronger referential functions in pragmatic; there are correlations between the adjectival objects and the thing nouns in semantics, while there is no nominalization in syntax.We also find that there is a theoretical conflict in the current research: although Chao pointed out that the chance of an adjectival or verbal object was much greater than a noun object, nominal objects is the main trend in verb-object constructions research. There are some questions we need to concern: what are the distibutions of verb-object constructions? What are the characteristics of verbal objects and adjectival objects?What are the similarities and differences?ReferencesChao, Yuanren. 1968. A Grammar of Spoken Chinese. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.Charles. N. Li and Sandra A. Thompson. 1981. Mandarin Chinese: A Functional Reference Grammar. California University of Press, California, USA.Chen, Zhong. 2005. Cognitive linguistic Research. Shandong Education Press, Shandong, China.Ding, Shengshu.1961. Modern Chinese grammar. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.F. Ungerer and H-J. Schmid. 2009. An introduction to University Press,Shanghai, China.Lv, Jiping. 1956. Subject and Object in Chinese. Zhonghua Book Company, Beijing, China.Lv, Shuxiang. 1979. Formulate Grammar Questions in Mandarin. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.Lakoff. G. and M. Jonhson. 1980. Metopher We Live By. The University of Chicago Press, Chicago, USA.Li, Yongzhong. 2004. Metonymy and Construction Coercion. Journal of PLA University of Foreign Languages, 27(2):10-14.Li, Yongzhong. 2005. The Conceptual Essence and the Pragmatic Significance of Metonymy. Foreign Language and Their Teaching, 197(8):1-4.Lu, Jianming. 2009. On Metaphor and Metonymy. Journal of Foreign Language, 32(1):44-50.Ma, Qingzhu. 2004. The Chinese Verb and Verbal Constructions. Peking University Press, Beijing, China.Ronald W.Langacker. 1987. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar. Standard University Press, California, USA.Shen, Jiaxuan. 1999. A Metonymic Model of Transferred Designation of De-constructions in Mandarin Chinese. Contemporary linguistics, 1(1):3-15.Xu, Shenghuan. 2008. Metonymy and the Logic of Taxonomy. Foreign Language Teaching and Research, 40(2):93-99.Yuan, Yulin. 2014. On a descriptive system of qualia structure of Chinese nouns and its application in parsing complex Chinese grammatical phenomena. Contemporary linguistics, 16(1):31-48.sZhu, Dexi. 1982. Grammar Questions. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.  cog-nitive linguistics. Fudan
Zhu, Dexi. 1982. Grammar Notes. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.Zhu, Dexi. 2011. Notes of Syntax Analysis. The Commercial Press, Beijing, China.Zhang, Bojiang. 2011. Mapping from Pragmatic Structures to Syntactic Structures in Chinese. Chinese Language Learning, 2:3-12.