AbstractIt is well known that the quality of machine translation (MT) outputs drastically deteriorates when the input sentences are long. Therefore, it is important to identify the problems, and explore possible solutions. Long sentences are likely to contain long noun phrases (NPs). NPs occupy important positions in sentence constructions such as the subject and object of sentences as well as the complements of prepositional phrases. This paper takes a detailed look at problematic outputs containing NPs the members of which are divided and separated apart (split NPs). The current study demonstrates that a parser that parses the words in a sentence into syntactically functional constituents would be required for solving split NP problems in the machine translation of long sentences. Outputs for this research are taken from the online English-to-Japanese translation on the Google Language Tools.IntroductionSecond AuthorAffiliation / Address line 1 Affiliation / Address line 2 Affiliation / Address line 3        email@domainthe translation rate averages 0.7 for a sentence of five words to 0.2 for a sentence of 20 words. Errors made in the translation of long sentences are more varied than those from short input sentences: they include not only those errors from short sentences, but those likely to occur in translation of long sentences.Long sentences tend to contain long NPs. NPs occupy important positions such as the subject and object NPs of sentences and complement NPs of prepositional phrases (PPs). In a head-initial language (in subject-verb-object word order) like English, NPs tend to appear at the beginning of sentences. A proper treatment of an initial element would be very important because an error at the beginning will affect the handling of the remaining components.This paper takes a detailed look at output errors made from long sentence translation. Exact impacts of such errors on other parts of the sentence would not be easy to observe via automatic analysis. Without knowing in detail what errors occur and how they mingle with other errors, it would be difficult to find out solutions to improvement. This research focuses on errors that occur in long NPs.Output sentences we examine are those translated by the English to Japanese online translation on the Google Language Tools, a state- of-the-art statistical machine translation (SMT) system. This paper discusses a related study in the second section, and presents and examines six examples of split NP problems in the third sectionFamily Split Problems in Machine Translation of Long Sentences: Case of Noun PhrasesThis paper studies output errors made in the machine translation of long sentences. It is well known that the quality of output sentences from long input sentences deteriorates drastically. Sumita (2014) reports that in the translation of patent texts from a foreign language into Japanese,
 while providing concluding remarks and suggestion for future work in the fourth section.2 Related studyGreen (2011) compared parsing accuracy with NPs bracketed with internal structures to NPs without them, and reports improvement in Bleu measure for English to Czech machine translation. His study is an example to show the impact of the bracketing of NPs, but detail is not known about how long are the NPs, and how the bracketing improves translation quality. Quirk and Corston- Oliver (2006) investigates the effect of parse quality on syntactically informed statistical machine translation, and reports improvements in machine translation, as the amount of training data increases. Habash (2007) emphasizes the need of parsing for improvement in syntactic preprocessing. Gallery and Manning (2008) presents a hierarchical phrase ordering model aiming at improving non-local reorderings, which are weaknesses of phrase-based SMT, but are possible with syntax-based systems. The non-local reorderings, however, dealt with in their study are not as long as those discussed in the present study. Hara et al. (2009) has alanlyzed parse errors for parser improvement. Their research attempts to capture underlying dependencies among parse errors, and deal with phrases such as NPs and PPs as flat, differing from this study which examines failures to identify the internal structures of NPs. Yu et al. (2011) presents an analysis of difficulties in Chinese deep parsing, in particular focusing on the coordination and relative clause constructions. Both constructions often appear in long NPs, and failures to define them give rise to split NPs. Deep parsing would be an approach to solving split NP problem, but although their research has shown a direction, it is still in the initial stage. Huck et al. (2014) proposes an approach in which a binary feature enables the MT system to distinguish non- syntactic phrases from syntactic ones, and to favor syntactically motivated phrases during decoding. It is not known how long such phrases are and how general the approach is, although this approach could be a solution to solving split long phrases.The present research aims to show in detail how split NPs are problematic in machine translation of long sentences. Another difference is that the current research investigates output errors fromlong input sentences.3 Split Noun Phrase ProblemsA long sentence tends to contain long noun phrases (NPs). It is no doubt difficult for an MT system to identify the boundary of a long NP, but a failure to recognize it gives rise to an unintelligible output sentence.The following six sentences are such examples. The first example has a 16-word NP containing an of-prepositional phrase and a relative clause. The second has an 11-word NP containing an apposition, an of-prepositional phrase, and a passive-form post-modifier. The third example has a 15-word NP consisting of various types of NPs including a verbal noun and a verbal noun phrase with an of-prepositional phrase. The fourth example has two split NPs of five and six words respectively containing expressions of time and location. The fifth example possesses a 13-word NP which is a verb noun phrase containing two to- prepositional phrases and a conjunction. The sixth example has a 12-word NP containing a such-as phrase, a passive-form post-modifier governing an in-prepositional phrase, the complement of which is modified by an of-prepositional phrase.Now let us take a look at them. Each example is illustrated in three steps. A) presents the original sentence, B), the output sentence in wrong Japanese word order, and C), a corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word order. In B) and C), instead of Japanese words, the corresponding English words are employed in this paper to help understand the reordering in the English-to- Japanese SMT.Listing 1 A split NP containing an of-prepositional phrase and a relative clauseA) An input English sentence(1)The scientists (2)were looking at (3)only a small portion (4)of the many genes that1 (5)might be expressed differently (6)in the brain (7)by exercise.B) The output in wrong Japanese word order1 The relative pronoun that is not numbered, because it is not used in a Japanese relative clause usually, and should disappear in the output sentence. 
 (1)Scientists-TOPIC, (3)small-portion-only-OBJ (2)looking-were (7)exercise-MEANS, (6)brain-SUBJ (5)differently-expressed-be-might-CONJ_FORM 2 (4)many-genes.3C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word order(1)Scientists-TOPIC4 , (7)exercise-MEANS, (6)brain- LOC_GOAL5 (5)differently-expressed-be--might (4)many-genes-MOD_NOM6 (3)small-portion-only- OBJ (2)looking-were.The output sentence violates three grammatical rules. (A) The Head NP in the object NP of the sentence a small portion of the many genSes is split into two, and each placed far apart in the output sentence. (B) The main verb of the sentence “were looking” was not reordered at the right place, which should have been at the very end of the main sentence. 7 (C) The main verb immediately precedes the relative clause that might be expressed differently in the brain by exercise, resulting in a wrong interpretation that the main verb modifies the relative clause. All these three violations together make the sentence unintelligible, even though all the chosen words are surprisingly near-perfect.The core structure of this sentence is simple: subject NP + verb + object NP (Scientists were looking at only a small portion of the many genes). The problem started with the relatively short Head NP, a small portion of the many genes. The2 CONJ_FORM stands for the conjunctive form of a verbal element including a verb, an auxiliary and adjective. Japanese uses different conjunctive forms depending upon what elements are conjoined. To conjoin verbal elements, the preceding verbal element takes the conjunctive form, while to conjoin nouns, conjunctions like and and or are used.3 (1)科学者たちは、(3) 小さな部分だけを(2)見ていまし た (7)運動することにより、(6) 脳が (5) 異なって表現さ れる場合があり(4)多くの遺伝子。4 TOPIC stands for topic marker. The function elements including the subject marker and case markers are written in capital letters in this paper.5 LOC_GOAL stands for the Locative case used to describe a place where something exists or a destination of an event involving movement.6 MOD_NOM stands for the nominal modifier case. It is realized as NO, and used when a noun modifies a noun as in Tokyo NO Skytree tower.7 As Japanese is a head final language, the Head of the sentence, i.e., the main verb, moves to the final position of the sentence.problem got even worse because the NP is modified by a relative clause. The information that the Head NP of the object NP of the sentence is a small portion of the many genes, and is modified by a relative clause is missing in the output sentence. A solution to these problems would be (A) to recognize the main verb and how many object NPs it takes other than the always existing subject NP. In this instance, the main verb look at can take only one object NP, thus the elements following it should be considered as the object NP, unless there are adverbial phrases that modify it. The particular SMT system in question is (B) lacking in the ability to handle a relative clause. It cannot deal with the many genes that might be expressed differently in the brain by exercise. The NP consists of the Head NP the many genes and the following relative clause. The reordering of the (partial) Head NP and the relative clause is correct in the output, but the auxiliary of the relative clause wrongly ends in the conjunctive form, which is expected to conjoin a sentence or a predicate, but not an NP as is the case with the output sentence.The following is another example of defining or segmenting an NP incorrectly, thus resulting in the unintelligible output sentence.Listing 2 A split NP containing an apposition and a nominal modifier in the passive formA) Input English sentenceOn July 6, 1957, (1)John Lennon, (2)the leader (3)of a band (4)called (5)the Quarry Men, (6)was introduced (7)to Paul McCartney, (8)through a mutual friend, Ivan Vaughan, (9)at Woolton Parish Church, (10)where (11)the Quarry Men (12)were scheduled (13)to perform.B) The output in wrong Japanese word orderJuly 6 1957-LOC_TM8+TOPIC, (1)John Lennon, (3)band-MOD_NOM (2)leader-TOPIC, (11)Quarry Men-OBJ (13)perform-IN_ORDER_TO (12)scheduled- were (9)Woolton-Parish-Church- LOC_EVT9+MOD_N10 (8)mutual-friend, Ivan- Vaughan-PATH, (7)Paul-McCartney-LOC_GOAL8 LOC_TM stands for locative case for time.9 LOC_EVT stands for the locative case that denotes a location in which an event takes place.10 MOD_NOM stands for a case marker that indicates the preceding phrase modifies the following nominal element.  
 (6)introduced-was, (5)Quarry-Men-QUOT (4)called- is.11C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word orderJuly 6 1957-LOC_TM, (5)Quarry-Men-QUOT (4)called-was (3)band-MOD_NOM (2) leader, (1)John Lennon-TOPIC, (11)Quarry Men-OBJ (13)perform- NOM12+SUBJ (12)scheduled-were (9)Woolton-Parish- Church-LOC_EVT (8)mutual-friend, Ivan-Vaughan- PATH, (7)Paul-McCartney-LOC_GOAL (6) introduced-was.The core structure of the input sentence is:John Lennon was introduced to PaulMcCartney.But the core structure of the output sentence is:John Lennon is called the quarry men. Although the core structure of the input sentence is simple as shown above, the input sentence as a whole becomes long because (A) the subject NP John Lennon is followed by a long apposition, (B) the apposition has a complex structure in which an inner NP a band is modified by the passive form of a verb phrase (VP), (C) the NP representing PATH, a mutual friend, is followed by an apposition, and (D) the NP representing LOC_EVT, Woolton Parish Church, is followed by a non-restrictive relative clause.The SMT system in question failed to recognize the subject NP in the following internal structure:NP [NP,NP [NP[NP+of+NP [NP+VP[called+NP]]],] To replace the NPs above with the words in theinput sentence:NP [NP[John Lennon] , NP[NP[the leader] of NP[NP [a band]VP[ Ven[called] NP[the Quarry Men]]]] ,]The SMT system wrongly interpreted the complex subject NP as a sentence having the following structure:NP(John Lennon) + V(is called) + NP(the Quarry Men)11 1957年7月6日には、(1)ジョン·レノン、(3)バンドの (2)リーダーは、(11)採石男性を (13) 実行するように (12) スケジュールされた (9) Woolton 教区教会での (8)共通の 友人、イワン·ヴォーン、を通して、(7)ポール·マッカー トニーに (6)紹介された、(5) 採石男性と(4)呼ばれます。 12 NOM stands for a nominalizer suffix that nominalize a verb.To be more exact:S[NP[John Lennon, the leader of a band], VP[V[is called]NP[the Quarry Men]]]13In the output sentence, the tensed verb is, which did not exist in the input sentence, is added.To prevent such a wrong segmentation, the system should be equipped with the following knowledge: an NP like the leader of a band called the Quarry Men, sandwiched by commas, should be recognized as an unbroken NP. Another solution is the use of a syntactic parser. Something like the following phrase structure rules would be needed, in addition to other basic phrase structure rules for NPs:(to deal with an NP followed by an apposition) NP NP COMMA NP COMMA(to handle an NP post-modified by a VP beginning with the past participial form of a verb)NP NP VPen(Ven indicates the past participial form of a verb)VPen Ven NPThe following example is an NP that becomes long because it consists of various types of NPs that are conjoined: a noun (job), a verbal noun (studying), a verbal noun phrase (carrying the majority of the house management load) and a noun (responsibilities). Unless the SMT system recognizes that a verbal noun and a verbal noun phrase can function as NPs or unless it has sufficient knowledge about sentence constructions and the well-formedness constraints for sentences, it would be very difficult to recognize this long NP as not a sentence. Let us see it carefully.Listing 3 A split NP conjoining NPs of various formsA) Input English sentence(1)With (2)a full-time job, (3)studying, (4)carrying (5)the majority (6)of the house management load (7)and (8)child-care responsibilities, (9)Joanne (10)is left (11)feeling (12)stressed, (13)anxious, (14)disorganized (15)and (16)short-tempered.B) The output in wrong Japanese word order 13 S stands for sentence while VP for verb phrase.  
 (2)a full-time job (1)with-TOPIC, (6)house management load (7)CON_NOM (8)child-care responsibilities- MOD_NOM (5) majority-OBJ (4)carry, (3)studying, (9)Joanne-SUBJ (10)is left (11)feeling-SUBJ (13)anxious-be, (14)disorder (15)CON_NOM (16)short- temper (12)stress.14C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word order(2)full-time-job, (3)study, (6)house-management-load- MOD_NOM (5)majority-OBJ (4)carrying-NOM (7)CON_NOM (8)child-care-responsibilities-OBJ (1)have-CONJ_FORM, (9)Joanne-TOPIC (12)stressed- CONJ_FORM, (13)anxious-CONJ_FORM, (14)disorganized-be (15)CONJ_FORM (16)short- tempered (11)feeling-LOC_GOAL (10)left-is.In the output sentence, it is good that no members of the complement NPs of the with-prepositional phrase intervenes in the constituents of the main sentence beginning with Joanne. But among the various forms of the complement NPs, the verbal noun phrase caused errors by being interpreted as the predicate verb of a sentence which means that with a full time job, (someone) holds a majority of house management load and child care responsibilities. This type of error would occur because the SMT system does not have knowledge about well-formedness constraints for sentences.The following is an example in which NPs are split when they contain expressions of a point of time and a location respectively.Listing 4 A split NPs containing expressions of a point of time and a location respectivelyA) Input English sentence(1)The biggest concern (2)late Wednesday (3)was (4)in San Marcos (5)north (6)of San Diego, (7)where (8)a new blaze (9)broke out (10)in the late afternoon, (11)some 21,000 evacuation notices (12)were sent (13)to residents (14)and (15)a California State University campus (16)with (17)nearly 10,000 students (18)was evacuated.14 (2)フルタイムの仕事(1)では、(6)家の管理負荷 (7)と (8)育児責任 (5)の大部分を (4)保有する、(3) 勉強、(9)ジョアンが (10)残っている (11)感じが、 (13)気になる (14)無秩序 (10)と (11)短気(12)ストレ ス。B) The output in wrong Japanese word order(2)Wednesday-late (5)north (8)new-blaze-TOPIC (10)afternoon-late-LOC_TM (9)broke-out (6)San- Diego-MOD_NOM (4)San-Marcos-LOC_GOAL (3)was (1)biggest concern-TOPIC, (11)some-21,000- evacuation-notices-SUBJ (13)residents-LOC_GOAL (12)were sent (14)CONJ-FORM, (17)nearly 10,000 students (16)CON_NOM (15)California State University campus-TOPIC (18)vacuumed. 15C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word order(2)Wednesday-late-MOD_NOM (1)biggest concern- TOPIC, (6)San-Diego-MOD_NOM (5)north- MOD_NOM (4)San-Marcos-LOC_GOAL (3)existed. (7)THERE (10)afternoon-late-LOC_TM (8)new-blaze- SUBJ (9)broke-out-CONJ_FORM, (11)some-21,000- evacuation-notices-SUBJ (13)residents-LOC_GOAL (12)were sent (14)CONJ_FORM, (17)nearly 10,000 students(16)staying (15)California State University campus-SUBJ (18)evacuated-was.The SMT system in question failed to identify the subject NP of the main clause the biggest concern late Wednesday, and split it into the biggest concern and late Wednesday. The partial subject the biggest concern was placed at the position of the Head NP of the wrongly created relative clause, resulting in the following sentence that means:The biggest concern that existed in San Marcos in San Diego where a new blaze broke out in the late afternoon north late Wednesday is that several 21,000 evacuation notices were sent to residents, and that nearly 10,000 students and a California State University campus expelled air.The output sentence contains many errors, and it would not be that the split subject NP is only the cause of them, but it surely initiated confusion in the reordering because it is located at the very beginning of the sentence. There should be the following NP structure:15 (2)水曜日遅く(5)北(7)新しいブレーズは(2)午後遅 くに(8)勃発した(6)サンディエゴの(4)サンマルコス に(3)あった(1)最大の懸念は、(10)いくつかの 21,000 避難通知が(12)住民に(11)送信され(13)、(16) 約 1 万の学生(15)と(14)カリフォルニア州立大学の キャンパスは、(17)排気しました。  
 NP [NP[DET ADJP N] NP[ADJ N]]The second N should express time such as the name of a month and a day of the week. It seems that not only the parts of speech (POSs) of words in the sentence, but the semantic features such as time must sometimes be referred to by the SMT system to properly parse an NP.Another split NP found in the output sentence contains an expression of direction: San Marcos north of San Diego. Somehow the word north alone in the above NP is extracted and reordered at the very beginning after the time expression late Wednesday and immediately before the wrong subject NP of the output sentence. Thus the NP San Marcos north of San Diego has become San Marcos of San Diego in the output sentence. This error indicates that without knowledge about NP constructions containing expressions of location, in particular such an idiomatic construction as north of, it would be difficult for an SMT to properly process such NPs.The following example is a split subject NP, which is a verbal noun phrase beginning with a verb in the present participial form (i.e., V-ing form). It is long because it contains conjoined PPs16, and the PPs are modified by a long non- restrictive relative clause.A proper approach to this construction would be to treat as a separate clause the non-restrictive relative clause which is sandwiched between commas. The output sentence indicates that the SMT system fails to identify the core structure of the sentence. A main cause of errors is a failure to recognize the long subject NP of the main sentence.Listing 5 A split NP expressing action A) Input English sentencePerhaps (1)turning (2)these letters (3)over to Caroline Kennedy (4)or (5)to the JFK Presidential Library, where (6)decisions (7)could be made about (8)what (9)to release to the public (10)and (11)what (12)should be saved for the sake of history, (13)would be the right thing to do.B) The output in wrong Japanese word order16 PP stands for prepositional phrase.Perhaps (3)Caroline Kennedy-upon, (4)or (6) decisions- TOPIC (9)the-public-to-release (10)CON_NOM (12)history-sake-for- saved-be-should (11)Q_SUF17, (13)do-to-TOPIC-right-thing-be-would (8)Q_SUF (7)about-made-be-could (5)JFK Presidential Library, (2)these-letters-OBJ (1)turn.18C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word orderPerhaps (8)what-OBJ (9)the-public-to-release (10)CONJ-FORM (11)what-OBJ (12)history-sake-for- saved-be-should (14)Q_SUF19 (6) decisions-SUBJ (7)made-be-can20 (3)Caroline Kennedy-LOC_GOAL, (4)or (5)JFK Presidential Library-LOC_GOAL (2)these-letters-OBJ (1)turning-SUBJ (13)right-thing- be-would.The subject NP is Turning these letters over to Caroline Kennedy or to the JFK Presidential Library without including the following non- restrictive relative clause. The SMT system failed to identify it. The two PPs conjoined with the conjunction or are separated apart in the output sentence. The first one over to Caroline Kennedy is placed at the beginning of the main sentence, and seems to participate in the non-restrictive relative clause, while the other one to the JFK Presidential Library appears to remain a GOAL argument of the verb turning, which has become erroneously the main verb of the output sentence.The core structure of the input sentence means:Turning these letters over to Caroline Kennedy or to the JFK Presidential Library would be the right thing to do.But the core structure of the output sentence means:(We) turn these letters to the JFK Presidential Library.17 Q_SUF indicates the clause is an interrogative.18 おそらく、(3) キャロラインケネディ上に、(4) 又は (6) 決定は (9)公衆に解放する(10)と(12)歴史のために保存す べき (11) か、(5)行うには正しいことであろう(8)か(7) に ついて行うことができる (4) JFK 大統領図書館、(2)これ らの手紙を (2)回します。19 This suffix is necessary to conclude the embedded interrogative clause.20 The green portion is a relative clause that modifies Caroline Kennedy and the JFK Presidential Library. This sentencecould be divided into two by separating the non-restrictive relative clause as an independent sentence.he  
 The SMT system in question not only wrongfully split the subject NP, but it could not handle the NP beginning with the ing-form of a verb. It is difficult to guess what exactly led to such errors, but what is clear is that the SMT system is lacking in knowledge about: (A) argument structure of the verb turn (i.e., the verb turn takes the object NP and the PP representing GOAL), (B) the function of commas marking off a linguistic unit such as a phrase or a clause, and (C) a restrictive relative clause marked off by commas.The following is an example of a split NP which consists of the Head NP modified by the such as phrase, and the complement NP of the such as phrase is modified by the past participial form of a verb which governs a long GOAL argument PP in the "Eye-Catching Clips" section of the website.Listing 6 A split NP consisting of the Head NP modified by the such as phrase with the complement NP modified by the past participial form of a verb which governs a long GOAL argument PPA) Input English sentence(1)With (2)products (3)such as (4)those (5)showcased (6)in the "Eye-Catching Clips" (7)section (8)of the website (9)demonstrating (10)what (11)is possible, (12)system designers (13)have discovered (14)that (15)the suppliers (16)of computer vision technology (17)have removed (18)the barriers (19)to building (20)practical computer vision systems.B) The output in wrong Japanese word order(2)such-as (6)“Eye-Catching Clips”-LOC_EVT (5)showcased (4)those (1)CON_NOM (2)products (21)CON_NOM21 (8)website-MOD_NOM (7)section- LOC_EVT+TOPIC, (12) system designers-TOPIC, (16)computer-vision-technology-MOD_NOM (15)suppliers-TOPIC (20)practical-computer-vision- systems-OBJ (19) build-MOD_NOM (18)barriers-OBJ (17)removing-is-NOM+OBJ (13)discovered-have (11)possibility-SUBJ (10)what-is-OBJ (9) demonstrate. 2221 CON_NOM is an extra word newly inserted in the output sentence.22 (2)このような(5)「目を引くクリップ」で(4)展示した (3)もの(1)と(2)製品(20)と(8)ウェブサイトの(7)セクショ ンでは、(12)システム設計者は、(16)コンピュータビジ ョン技術の(15)サプライヤーは(20)実用的なコンピュー タビジョンシステムを(19)構築するの(18)障壁を(17)除去C) A corresponding sentence in correct Japanese word order(8)website-MOD_NOM (6)“Eye-Catching Clips” (7)section-LOC_EVT, (4)showcased (3)those (2)such- as (2)products-SUBJ (10)what-SUBJ (11)possible-is (21)Q_SUF+OBJ (9) demonstrating-BY (16)computer- vision-technology-MOD_NOM (15)suppliers-SUBJ (20)practical-computer-vision-systems-OBJ (19)building (18)barriers-OBJ (17)removed-have- NOM+OBJ (12) system designers-TOPIC (13)discovered-have.The sentence begins with the circumstantial with construction which takes form of with + a small clause. A small clause consists of the subject NP followed by the predicate phrase. It differs from regular clauses in that there is no tense marker in a small clause such as the present and past tense markers. The predicate phrase can begin with the basic form of a verb, the present participial or the past participial. In the sentence in question, the predicate phrase begins with the present participial of the verb demonstrate. The core structure of the circumstantial with-construction is:with small clause[subject NP demonstrating what is possible]The subject NP of the small clause is long:products such as those showcased in the "Eye- Catching Clips" section of the website. It is divided into five parts: products, such as, those showcased, in the "Eye-Catching Clips", and section of the website. The phrases such as and "Eye-Catching Clips" were illegally combined, and placed at the beginning of the output sentence. The remaining three parts, those showcased, products, and section of the website were conjoined by the Japanese nominal conjunction, and were followed by the case marker that indicates that what the three parts refer to are locations where action takes place, which is a wrong interpretation generated from such conjoined NPs and the case marker following them. It is difficult to know what principles guided the reordering in the output sentenceThe predicate part of the small clause is demonstrating what is possible. Although this isしていることを(13)発見した(11)可能性が(10)何であるか を(9)実証します。  
 the predicate of the small clause in the with-PP, it is reordered in the place for the predicate verb phrase of the main sentence in the output.It is no doubt difficult to identify the idiomatic with-construction, but even though this analysis is wrong, the SMT system still should be able to recognize the complement NP of the with-PP. As shown in the above discussion, the reordering among NPs in the complement NP of the with-PP is wrong. This shows that the SMT system in question is not provided with sufficient knowledge about NP constructions.4 Conclusion and Future WorkIt is well known that the quality of output sentences from long input sentences deteriorates drastically. The present study has studied output errors from long input sentences at a statistical machine translation from English into Japanese. In particular, it has focused on errors related to noun phrases (split NPs) the members of which are divided and separated apart across other sentence elements in the output sentences. Long sentences tend to contain long noun phrases, and noun phrases occupy important positions in sentence constructions as the subject and object of the sentence as well as the complement of a prepositional phrase (PP). The current study demonstrates the need of a parser equipped with knowledge about the internal structures of NPs which are so varied in long NPs. A good documentation of possible internal structures of NPs remains to be seen.A proper parsing of NPs is one among the initial tasks in the machine translation of long sentences, but it is also important to parse properly syntactic constituents of other categories. In the machine translation of long sentences between distant language pairs like English and Japanese, extraction of syntactically functional phrases and the identification of the functions are needed whether for reordering, pre-reordering or parsing per se.ReferencesGallery, M. and Manning, C. D. 2008. A Simple and Effective Hierarchical Phrase Reordering Model. Proceedings of EMNLP. 848-856.Green, N. 2011. “Effects of Noun Phrase Bracketing in Dependency Parsing and Machine Translation. Proceedings of ACL-HLT, Student Session, 69-74.Habash, N. 2007. Syntactic Processing for Statistical Machine Translation. Proceedings of Machine Translation Summit XI. 215-222.Hara, T., Miyao, Y., and Tsujii, J. 2009. Descriptive and Empirical Approaches to Capturing Underlying Dependencies among Parsing Errors. Proceedings of EMNLP. 1162-1171.Huck, M, Hoang, H. and Koehn, P. (2014) Augmenting String-to-Tree and Tree-to-String Translation with Non-Syntactic Phrases. Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation. 486- 496.Sumita, Eiichiro. 2014. Present state of machine translation with a focus on statistical approach. Journal of Information Processing and Management, 57(1): 12-21.Quirk, C. and Corston-Oliver. S. 2006. The Impact of Parse Quality on Syntactically-informed Statistical Machine Translation. Proceedings of EMNLP. 62-69.Xia, F. and McCord, M. 2004. Improving a Statistical MT System with Automatically Learned Rewrite Patterns. Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING). 508-514.Xu, P., Kang, J.,Ringgaard, M., and Och, F. 2009. Using a Dependency Parser to Improve SMT for Subject-Object-Verb Languages. Proceedings of HLT: NA-ACL. 245-253.Yamada, K. and Knight, K. 2001. A Syntax-based Statistical Translation Model. Proceedings of ACL.523-530.Yu, K., Miyao, Y., Matsuzaki, T., Wang, X., and Tsujii, J.. 2011. Analysis of the Difficulties in Chinese Deep Parsing. Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Parsing Technologies. 48-57.