Auditory Synaesthesia and Near Synonyms:A Corpus-Based Analysis of sheng1 and yin1 in Mandarin ChineseQingqing Zhao1 Chu-Ren Huang2 Hongzhi Xu3 The Department of Chinese and Bilingual StudiesAbstractThis paper explores the nature of linguistic synaesthesia in the auditory domain through a corpus-based lexical semantic study of near synonyms. It has been established that the near synonyms 聲 sheng “sound” and 音 yin “sound” in Mandarin Chinese have different semantic functions in representing auditory production and auditory perception respec- tively. Thus, our study is devoted to test- ing whether linguistic synaesthesia is sensi- tive to this semantic dichotomy of cognition in particular, and to examining the relation- ship between linguistic synaesthesia and cog- nitive modelling in general. Based on the cor- pus, we find that the near synonyms exhibit both similarities and differences on synaesthe- sia. The similarities lie in that both 聲 and 音 are productive recipients of synaesthetic trans- fers, and vision acts as the source domain most frequently. Besides, the differences exist in se- lective constraints for 聲 and 音 with synaes- thetic modifiers as well as syntactic functions of the whole combinations. We propose that the similarities can be explained by the cogni- tive characteristics of the sound, while the dif- ferences are determined by the influence of the semantic dichotomy of production/perception on synaesthesia. Therefore, linguistic synaes- thesia is not a random association, but can be motivated and predicted by cognition.1 IntroductionSynaesthesia is a phenomenon of one sensation connecting to another, which has been studied in two distinct disciplines. One is neuroscience,which characterizes synaesthesia as a neural disor- der (Cytowic, 1993), and the other one is linguis- tics that widely describes synaesthesia as a metaphor (Williams, 1976; Geeraerts, 2010). This paper is fo- cused on the linguistic synaesthesia.Synaesthesia occurs commonly and naturally in languages (Huang, 2015), such as “sweet voice” in English and 高音 gao-yin “high pitch” in Chinese, of which “sweet” and 高 gao “high” are normally perceived through gustation and vision respectively, while “voice” and 音 yin “sound” both belong to the auditory domain, therefore, the whole combina- tions exhibit an association of different sensations, namely synaesthesia.In terms of research on linguistic synaesthesia, most previous studies are concentrated on the direc- tionality of synaesthetic transfers, that is, which sen- sation usually acts as the source domain and which sensation is the target domain. For instance, Ull- mann (1957) studied creative usages of synaesthesia on 2000 examples from poems in the 19th century, and proposed a tendency of hierarchical distribution for synaesthesia. He concluded that synaesthetic transfers are usually from much “lower domains” (such as touch and taste) to much “higher domains” (such as vision and hearing)1, and the acoustic field emerges as the main recipient. Williams (1976) also claimed that the diachronic meaning change of synaesthetic adjectives in ordinary English obeys a strict rule that can be universal for all human lan- guages, as shown in Figure1.1The terms, “lower domains” and “higher domains”, are copied from Ullmann (1957), where the former refers to touch, taste and smell, and the later includes hearing and vision.The Hong Kong Polytechnic University1 zhaoqingqing0611@163.com 2 churen.huang@polyu.edu.hk 3 hongz.xu@gmail.com 
 Figure 1: The Meaning Change of Synaesthetic Adjectives (Source: Williams, 1976).In response to Williams (1976), Zhao and Huang (2015) carried out a study on synaesthesia in the Chinese language and demonstrated that the hier- archy proposed based on English is not applica- ble to Chinese. Similarly, Strik Lievers (2015) also pointed out that the “directionality principle” reflects the frequency of association types, rather than representing universal constraints on synaes- thetic transfers. Thus, linguistic synaesthesia should be investigated specifically for different languages in depth. Unfortunately, fine-grained studies on synaesthesia in Chinese are still scarce.Given the gap on synaesthesia in Chinese, we think that it could be a good way to start off with examining synaesthesia in near synonyms, because the interaction between synaesthesia and subtle se- mantic differences in near synonyms could provide much deeper and more fine-grained clues for synaes- thesia. The benefits of studies on near synonyms to explain and predict linguistic phenomena have been widely recognized. For example, Chief et al. (2000) suggested that some semantic features obtained by comparing near synonyms can be useful on the pre- diction of syntactic performances. Similarly, Hong and Huang (2004), Hong and Huang (2005) also pointed that semantic/cognitive features embedded in perceptual near synonyms can influence their us- ages in the language.As previous studies show that the auditory do- main is the main target of synaesthetic transfers (Ull- mann, 1957; Williams, 1976), the near synonyms, 聲 sheng “sound” and 音 yin “sound” in Mandarin Chinese, should be good candidates for our research, which have been established to represent different semantic/cognitive focuses on the sound. Specifi- cally speaking, 聲 is concentrated on the auditory production, while 音 is focused on the auditory per- ception, although both can refer to the sound (Hong and Huang, 2004; Hong and Huang, 2005). There- fore, through studying the synaesthetic usages ofthis pair of near synonyms, not only can we test whether synaesthesia is sensitive to the semantic di- chotomy of production and perception, but also we can examine the relationship between synaesthesia and cognition.The present paper is organized as follows: we will introduce the methods of collecting and annotating data in Section 2, and figure out the similarities as well as differences between 聲 and 音 on synaes- thesia in Section 3, which will be followed by some explanations in Section 4. In the last Section, we will summarize our main findings and propose our future work.2 2.1Methodology: Corpus Selection and Data AnnotationCorpus Selection and Measurement CriteriaIn order to make our study more tenable, we attempt to exhaust the data as possible as we can, and hence rely on the corpus for data collection. We select four widely-used huge corpora as our data sources, of which Sinica Corpus 2 (Chen et al., 1996) is the main corpus and other three corpora, including Chi- nese GigaWord 2 Corpus (Mainland, simplified)3; Chinese GigaWord 2 Corpus (Taiwan, traditional)4 ; and the journal corpus of BCC Corpus5 , act as the complement.The reason for giving the priority to Sinica Cor- pus is on the consideration that the corpus is a well- recognized balanced and high-quality corpus with2Accessed at: http://app.sinica.edu.tw/kiwi/ mkiwi/3 Accessed at: https://the.sketchengine.co. uk/bonito/run.cgi/first_form?corpname= preloaded/cgw2_sc4 Accessed at: https://the.sketchengine.co. uk/bonito/run.cgi/first_form?corpname= preloaded/cgw2_tc;5 Accessed at: http://bcc.blcu.edu.cn/index. php?corpus=2 
tagging information (Chen et al., 1996), which we think can facilitate our research.Besides, usages in newspapers are normally well- established and the controversial issues about gram- maticality for some specific examples could be de- creased to a degree, and we hence select three jour- nal corpora as the complement (Refer to Hong and Huang, 2006 for the introduction of two GigaWord corpora).Regarding the data from different corpora, we set some measurement criteria to make them compa- rable. To be specific, we depend on the statisti- cal information, which includes the frequency in- formation of examples per million word tokens in their respective corpora and also percentage infor- mation of each example in its source corpus. For in- stance, 大聲 da-sheng “loudly” occurs 407 times in Sinica Corpus (4.0 edition) as a “stative and intransi- tive verb”6 and word tokens in the corpus is around 10 million, so its calculated frequency is 40.7 and the percentage is 0.00407% for the analysis in this paper. For some complementary examples, which do not appear in Sinica Corpus, we also utilize the criterion to calculate its frequency in their relevant corpora.7 For example, the calculated frequency of 長聲 chang-sheng “in prolonged voice” is 0.01 and hence its percentage is 0.000001%, because it occurs 10 times in the journal corpus of BCC with around 1000 million word tokens.2.2 Data Collection and AnnotationWe exhaust all the examples with two characters in the modifier-head relation in Sinica Corpus, whose heads are either 聲 or 音. If the modifier does not be- long to audition but can be classified into any of four other sensations, including touch, gustation, olfac- tion and vision, we think that this example involves synaesthesia.In terms of determining the sensory domain of modifiers, we refer to its original meaning in 說文 解字 shuo-wen-jie-zi and 漢典 han-dian8 . Take the meaning of 雜 za “mixed” in 說文解字 for exam- ple, it is paraphrased as 五彩相會 wu-cai-xiang-hui “five colors mixing together”, therefore, we classify6The term is used in Sinica Corpus, and marked as VH.7For more detailed information about the size and design of these corpora, please refer to the websites mentioned above.8Accessed at: http://www.zdic.net/it into the visual domain.Moreover, we divide some sensory domains fur-ther into several sub-domains. For instance, we dis- tinguish vision into size, dimension and so on.All the synaesthetic examples we find in Sinica Corpus are words9 with the information of part of speech, so we calculate the frequency of each exam- ple according to different part of speech labels. For some examples that do not appear in Sinica Corpus, we annotate them manually with the part of speech information compared to Sinica Corpus, and utilize the measurement rule mentioned above to obtain their frequencies and percentages for discussion. If one complementary example has different frequen- cies and percentages in additional corpora, we take the most frequent one and the respective corpus into consideration.Therefore, our data is summarized as follows in Table 1 and Table 2, with the part of speech10, fre- quency and percentage information11 .3 3.1Similarity and Difference on SynaesthesiaSynaesthetic Similarity for the Near SynonymsAs shown in Table 1 and Table 2, we can see that there are some similarities on synaesthesia between the near synonyms.General speaking, as 聲 and 音 both belong to the auditory sensation, other modalities can trans- fer frequently to describe these two near synonyms, of which morphemes from both visual and tactile domains can be used to modify 聲 and 音. There- fore, hearing is also a productive target domain of synaesthetic transfers in Mandarin Chinese. This is in line with the observation for English (Ullmann, 1957; Williams, 1976).9We do not plan to involve the controversial issue about how to determine a sequence is a word or not, for the discrimination will not influence the discussion below.10Word/POS/Freq/Perc in Table 1 and Table 2 refers to word, part of speech, frequency and percentage. Please note that we group VH and D, although VH denotes “stative and intransitive verbs” and D denotes “adverbs” in Sinica Corpus, for both of them are related to events, rather than referring to an entity.11Please also note that although there are some polysemous examples in our data, some senses are irrelevant to synaesthesia, such as 美音 mei-yin “pronunciation in American English”. We exclude this type of usages.  
 Source Domain聲 sheng1 “sound”音 yin1 “sound” Word/POS/Freq/Perc高音/Na/4.6/0.00046% “high pitch” 低音/Na/4.6/0.00046% “low pitch” 中音/Na/2.9/0.00029% “mediant”尖音/Na/0.2/0.00002% “sharp sound”美音/Na/0.2/0.00002% “beautiful sound”長音/Na/0.2/0.00002% “prolonged sound” Word/POS/Freq/Perc大聲/VH/40.7/0.00407% “loudly” 小聲/VH/4.3/0.00043% “in a low voice”高聲/D/5.4/0.00054% “loudly” 低聲/D/6.3/0.00063% “lowly”朗聲/D/0.1/0.00001% “in a clear voice” 陰聲/D/0.1/0.00001% “in a deep voice”尖聲/D/1.2/0.00012% “in a sharp voice”齊聲/D/4/0.0004% “in chorus”長聲/D/0.01/0.000001% “in a prolonged voice”雜聲/Na/0.014/0.0000014% “noise”清聲/D/0.001/0.0000001% “in a clear voice”Word/POS/Freq/Perc VISIONsizedimensionlightshapeevaluationlengthcolortransparency平聲/Na/0.4/0.00004% “level tone”美聲/Na/0.4/0.00004% “bel canto”長聲/Na/0.03/0.000003%“prolonged sound”短聲/Na/0.013/0.0000013% 短音/Na/0.018/0.0000018%“short sound”清聲/Na/0.002/0.0000002% “clear sound”“short sound”雜音/Na/3.5/0.00035% “noise”清音/Na/0.3/0.00003% “voiceless sound” 濁音/Na/0.01/0.000001% “voiced sound”Chinese Table 1: Synaesthetic Examples of 聲 and 音 from Vision in MandarinSpecifically, for 聲 and 音, different modalities have different transferability. Vision transfers more fre- quently to the auditory domain than touch, which can be reflected in both types and frequencies. There are 14 morphemes from the visual domain that canmodify 聲 and 10 morphemes from the tactile do- main. Similarly, 10 morphemes from the vision can be used to describe 音 and only 6 morphemes from touch. In terms of frequencies of synaesthetic exam- ples, the most frequent modifier for 聲 is 大 da “big”
 Source Domain聲 sheng1 “sound”音 yin1 “sound” Word/POS/Freq/Perc輕音/Na/0.006/0.0000006% “light tone”重音/Na/0.6/0.00006% “stress”細音/Na/0.001/0.0000001% “tiny sound” 柔音/Na/0.002/0.0000002% “soft sound” 軟音/Na/0.001/0.0000001% “soft sound”滑音/Na/1/0.0001% “smooth sound”  TOUCHweighttextureWord/POS/Freq/Perc輕聲/D/8/0.0008%“in a soft voice” 沉聲/VH/1.4/0.00014% “in a heavy voice”粗聲/VH/0.5/0.00005% “raucously” 細聲/D/0.4/0.00004% “in a soft voice” 柔聲/D/2/0.0002%“in a soft voice” 軟聲/VH/0.001/0.0000001% “in a soft voice” 硬聲/D/0.001/0.0000001% “in a hard voice”寒聲/VH/0.1/0.00001% “in a cold voice” 溫聲/D/0.007/0.0000007% “in a warm voice” 冷聲/D/0.003/0.0000003% “in a cold voice”Word/POS/Freq/Perc輕聲/Na/0.4/0.00004% “light tone”temperature溫聲/Na/0.001/0.0000001% “warm sound” TASTE甜聲/D/0.001/0.0000001% “in a sweet voice”tasteTable 2: Synaesthetic Examples of 聲 and 音 from Touch and Taste in Mandarin Chinese from the visual domain. Similarly, 高 gao “high” and 低 di “low” modify 音 most frequently with the same frequency, which are both from vision. If we calculate the ratio of all the frequencies of mor- phemes from vision to those from touch, the ration for 聲 is around 5 times and that for 音 is about 10 times. It seems that vision is much easier to transfer into hearing than touch in Mandarin Chinese, which has not been mentioned in previous research yet.In summary, the similarities on synaesthesia be- tween 聲 and 音 exist in two aspects. The first one is that both 聲 and 音 can be productive recipientsof synaesthetic transfers, which can be described by visual words and tactile words. The other similar property is concerned with the priority of vision to touch when modifying these two synonyms. In other words, vision is used more frequently to characterize 聲 and 音 than touch.3.2 Synaesthetic Difference for the Near SynonymsBesides similarities, there are also two differences on synaesthesia for 聲 and 音, one of which is re- flected in selective constraints and the other exists in the syntactic function of the whole combinations.
 3.2.1 Selective ConstraintsAs we see in Table 1 and Table 2, there are more domains and more modifiers that can be used for 聲 than 音. 聲 can be naturally described by gustation, but 音 cannot. There are totally 25 morphemes mod- ifying 聲, including 14 from vision, 10 from touch and 1 from taste, while only 16 morphemes modify- ing 音, including 10 from vision and 6 from touch. In terms of the frequencies of words, words contain- ing 聲 occur more frequently in corpora than those containing 音. Therefore, 聲 seems to be much easier and more common to be described than 音 through synaesthesia.Interestingly, there is another difference between 聲 and 音 on synaesthesia about the selection con- straint. That can be instantiated in the symmetry of modifiers selection for sub-domains. Polar items in gradable antonymous relations (Lyons, 1977) in each sub-domain are usually selected for synaes- thetic usages, such as 大 da “big” and 小 xiao “small” for the size and 清 qing “clear” and 濁 zhuo “turbid” for the transparency. For some sub- domains, there exists the symmetry between mod- ifiers selection. For examples, in terms of the di- mension domain for 聲, the modifiers selection is symmetrical, because the polar items 高 gao “high” and 低 di “low” are both selected and there is no other in-between item on the gradable axis that has been selected. However, in terms of the dimension domain for 音, the selection is asymmetrical, for 中 zhong “middle” is also used besides the polar items 高 and 低. In this way, we can calculate the sym- metry of modifiers selection for 聲 and 音 in each sub-domain, which is shown in Table 3. Thus, the whole symmetry ratio for 聲 is 50%, while that for 音 is only 38%.Therefore, there is a noteworthy difference on se- lective constraints for the near synonyms on synaes- thesia. Specifically speaking, 聲 receives more synaesthetic modifications than 音, and also em- ploys higher symmetry on modifiers selection in each sub-domain.3.2.2 Syntactic FunctionAnother difference on synaesthesia between 聲 and 音 is related to the whole syntactic function of the synaesthetic combinations. All the examples con- taining 音 refer to the entity, that is, a specific kind ofSub-domainssizedimensionlightshapeevaluationlengthcolortransparencyweighttexturetemperature - taste -“sound”聲 sheng1 + + +音 yin1 “sound” NA-NA--+-++-NANA - - + - - + + Table 3: The Synaesthetic Symmetry of 聲 and 音 in Mandarin Chinese.sound, such as 長音 chang-yin “prolonged sound”. However, most examples containing 聲 is concerned with the event, such as 大聲 da-sheng “loudly”, for 大聲 can only be used to modify a predicate (e.g., 大聲唱歌 da-sheng-chang-ge “sing loudly”) or ex- press a state (e.g., 他說話很大聲 ta-shuo-hua-hen- da-sheng “his talking is loud”), whereas it cannot denote an entity (e.g., *一個大聲 yi-ge-da-sheng “a loud sound”).As Table 1 and Table 2 shows, only 4 adjective morphemes exclusively form a noun when combin- ing with 聲. In terms of these 4 exceptional ex- amples, we can see that two of them are termino- logical words in some specific areas, namely 美聲 mei-sheng “bel canto” and 平聲 ping-sheng “level tone”. In addition, the other two are used in a very low frequency, and 短聲 duan-sheng “short sound” as well as 雜聲 za-sheng “noise” neither occur in Sinica Corpus, with the calculated frequencies of only 0.013 and 0.014 respectively in the journal cor- pus of BCC. Therefore, the synaesthetic combina- tions of 聲 and 音 have different syntactic functions, of which combinations with 聲 are normally related to an event, whereas combinations with 音 always refer to an entity.In conclusion, although 聲 and 音 are near syn- onyms and both can denote the sound; there are some noteworthy differences on synaesthesia. 聲 is much easier to be described through synaesthe- sia than 音, and also employs higher symmetry on synaesthetic selection of modifiers. Moreover, the combinations of 聲 or 音 have different syntactic
functions, of which combinations with 聲 are nor- mally related to an event, while combinations with 音 always refer to an entity.4 Production and Perception in SoundAs a pair of near synonyms, 聲 and 音 have both similar properties and different characteristics on synaesthesia in Mandarin Chinese, which can be explained by combining the framework of Gener- ative Lexicon (Pustejovsky, 1995) and the seman- tic/cognitive dichotomy of production and percep- tion in the sound (Hong and Huang, 2004).As Pustejovsky (1995) proposed that lexical items can be represented in Lexical Inheritance Structure and some semantic information encoded in lexical items are inherited from upper concepts, which de- termines their performances in languages. Both 聲 and 音 are in the auditory domain, which can de- note the sound, thus, both of them can inherit com- mon semantic information from the upper concept, namely sound. Therefore, we think that the similar- ities on synaesthesia between 聲 and 音 are deter- mined by the whole synaesthetic characteristics for hearing, that is, hearing is a productive recipient of synaesthetic transfers and is much easier to be the target domain of vision than touch. 12In terms of synaesthetic differences between 聲 and 音, the semantic/cognitive dichotomy of pro- duction and perception really play a role. Hong and Huang (2004) suggested that in the whole transmis- sion process of sounds it should include the start- ing point, the process and the ending point, of which some concepts focus on the starting point, namely the production of the sound, such as 聲, and some concepts concentrate on the ending point, namely perception and evaluation of the sound, such as 音. According to this proposal, the selective differences on synaesthesia between 聲 and 音 can be reason- ably explained. From the cognitive point of view (Gibbs, 2006), embodied action can influence con- ceptualization in languages. Compared with the ending point of the sound, humans can impose much more active actions on the starting point, whereas the perception and evaluation can be received much12 Frankly speaking, we have not figure out the reason why vi- sion transfers more easily into hearing than touch. However, we think that this issue will not influence the hypothesis proposed in this paper, and should be involved in our future work.more passively. Therefore, the production of the sound is conceptualized and characterized more fre- quently than the perception through synaesthesia. Also, we speculate that the volition may result in the higher symmetry on sound production for 聲, which needs further research.The difference on syntactic functions of synaes- thetic combinations for 聲 and 音 can be explained by the combination of Generative Lexicon and the distinction between production and perception. In Generative Lexicon, qualia structure of a lexical item, including formal role, constitutive role, telic role and agentive role, can predict their perfor- mances in languages (Pustejovsky, 1995). As 聲 focuses on the production of the sound, the salient qualia role in its semantic information is the agen- tive role, which is usually related to an event or pred- icate that brings something into being. Conversely, synaesthetic modifiers always contribute to the for- mal role of 音, for 音 focuses on perception and evaluation of the sound.5 ConclusionThis paper is devoted to a fine-grained study on the interaction between synaesthesia and the near syn- onyms 聲 and 音 of the auditory domain in Man- darin Chinese. We take a corpus-based approach and at the same time employ a combination method of qualitative and quantitative analyses. Eventually, some interesting findings are obtained.In particular, 聲 and 音, as a pair of near syn- onyms in the auditory domain, have both similar properties and different characteristics on synaesthe- sia. In terms of similarities, both 聲 and 音 can be productive recipients of synaesthetic transfers and both can be described by vision and touch. More- over, vision is observed to act as the most predomi- nant source domain for these near synonyms. In ad- dition, the differences on synaesthesia between 聲 and 音 are also apparent. 聲 receives much more synaesthetic modifications than 音, and also has a higher symmetry on synaesthetic modifiers selec- tion. On the other hand, the combinations of synaes- thetic modifications with 聲 are normally related to an event (i.e., production of the sound), while those with 音 always refer to an entity (namely the percep- tion or evaluation of the sound). 
The similarities and differences mentioned above can be explained by semantic information and cog- nitive motivations. Both 聲 and 音 can denote the sound, so they can inherit common semantic infor- mation from the sound, which result in the similar- ity on synaesthesia. However, the different cogni- tive focuses on the sound, namely the distinction be- tween production and perception, make 聲 and 音 have different synaesthetic performances.In general, we can conclude that auditory synaes- thesia is sensitive to the cognitive dichotomy of pro- duction/perception in Mandarin Chinese. In other words, synaesthesia can be predicted and deter- mined by the cognitive modelling. Therefore, be- sides the transfer tendency recognized by previous studies, linguistic synaesthesia exhibit another regu- larity, that is, it can be determined by cognitive mo- tivations. Therefore, linguistic synaesthesia is not a kind of random associations of different sensations, but of many principles and regularities, which de- serves much more attention and deeper studies.In the following study, we will expand the re- search scope and test more interactions between synaesthesia and the cognitive modelling, through which we hope that our studies could contribute to bridging the research on synaesthesia in linguistics and that in neuroscience eventually.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to give thanks to Dennis Tay from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University for his insightful comments on this work.ReferencesChu-Ren Huang. 2015. Towards a Lexical Semantic The- ory of Synaesthesia in Chinese. Keynote Speech in the 16th Chinese Lexical Semantics Workshop (CLSW-16). Beijing.Dirk Geeraerts. 2010. Theories of Lexical Semantics. Oxford University Press, New York.Francesca Strik Lievers. 2015. Synaesthesia: A Corpus- Based Study of Cross-Modal Directionality. Sensory Perceptions in Language and Cognition: 69-95Jia-Fei Hong and Chu-Ren Huang. 洪嘉馡, 黃居仁. 2004. A Comparative Analysis on the Near Synonyms sheng1 and yin1: the Relation between Lexical Se- mantics and Concepts「聲」與「音」的近義辨析: 詞義與概念的關係. In the International Conferenceon the Situations and Trends about Chinese Lexical Se- mantics 漢語詞彙語意研究的現狀與發展趨勢國際 學術研討會. Peking University 北京大學.Jia-Fei Hong and Chu-Ren Huang. 洪嘉馡, 黃居仁. 2005. A Comparative Analysis on Perceptual Verbs with Near Synonyms: the Relation between Lexical Semantics and Concepts, 感官動詞的近義辨析:詞 義與概念的關係. In the 6th Chinese Lexical Seman- tics Workshop (CLSW-6): 20-24. Xiamen.Jia-Fei Hong and Chu-Ren Huang. 2006. Using Chinese GigaWord Corpus and Chinese Sketch Engine in Lin- guistic Research. In the Proceeding of the 20th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Com- putation (PACLIC-20): 183-190. Wuhan.John Lyons. 1977. Semantics (1). Cambridge University Press, New York.James Pustejovsky. 1995. The Generative Lexicon. The MIT Press, Cambridge.Joseph M. Williams. 1976. Synaesthetic Adjectives: A Possible Law of Semantic Change. Language 52(2): 461 – 478.Keh-jiann Chen, Chu-Ren Huang, Li-ping Chang, and Hui-Li Hsu. 1996. Sinica Corpus: Design Method- ology for Balanced Corpora. In the Proceeding of the 11th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Informa- tion and Computation (PACLIC-11):167-176. Seoul.Lian-Cheng Chief, Chu-Ren Huang, Keh-Jian Chen, Mei-Chih Tsai and Li-li Chang. 2000. What Can Near Synonyms Tell Us. Computational Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing 5(1): 47-60.Qingqing Zhao and Chu-Ren Huang. 2015. A Corpus- Based Study on Synaesthetic Adjectives in Modern Chinese. In the 16th Chinese Lexical Semantics Work- shop (CLSW-16). Beijing.Richard E. Cytowic. 1993. The Man Who Tasted Shapes. MIT Press, Massachusetts.Raymond W. Gibbs. 2006. Embodiment and Cognitive Science. Cambridge University Press, New York.Stephen Ullmann. 1957. The Principles of Semantics. Basil Blackwell, Oxford.