AbstractLANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION AS MEANS OF INTRIGUE BYObidiebube, Joyce IfeomaReader in Igbo LanguageNwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe, Anambra State, Nigeria. obidiebubejoyce@gmail.com +2348066783316andUzoalor, Joy UcheNwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe, Anambra State, Nigeria. eberebobitto@yahoo.com +2348100251849A paper presented at the PACLIC 2015: The 29th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computing October 30, 2015 – November 1, 2015At Shanghai, ChinaThe purpose of this paper was to highlight intrigues in day to day activities of the people of the world.was on language and communication as related to intrigue. Theories of motivation were used as the theoretical framework for the study. The conceptual review took a look at the three major concepts in the study: language, communication and intrigue. The study highlighted the relationship between language, intrigue and communication. References were made to some literary texts to drive home some points. The data were also analysed taking a look at the relationship between motivation, language, communication and intrigue. The paper concluded that motivation, language and intrigue are related and can have positive or negative impact depending on the motive of the user. Some recommendations were also made.The focus1   1.0 IntroductionThe physical world is populated by human beings and animals. Human beings have a lot of needs (physiological, psychological, emotional and intellectual needs) in the society. These needs are satisfied through their interactions with their environment. Man is a social animal and there is always the need to communicate with each other in his/her environment. Man communicates mainly through language as the only organism endowed by God with the capability of producing and using language. Language is basically studied by linguists. Linguistics is the scientific study of language. According to Prasad (2009:3), linguistics is the science that describes and classifies language. These classifications are seen to touch all the areas that concerns language: phonology, morphology, (descriptive linguistics), sociolinguistics, etc.2.0 Literature Review2.1 Theoretical framework: Theories of MotivationMotivation is a central point in all aspects of behaviour. It is a process of arousing an organism into action towards attainment of a particular goal. Motivation is a process of producing movement. Westen (1996) sees motivation as a moving force that energizes behaviour. People behave the way they do because they are moved into such behaviours by forces within and around them. A number of theories have been propounded on why people behave the way they do. The theories include the following:
2 a. Physiological theory of motivation: This theory of motivation was developed by Clifford T Morgan. The theory is also known as Central Motive State (CMS). The theory maintains that there is a central motive state which constitutes the basis of all human activities and behaviour. The brain is the central portion in the physiological control of human behaviour.b. Instinctual theory of motivation: This theory of motivation conceives motivation to mean something that occurs due to genetic programming. The theory maintains that motivation is inborn.c. Maslow's Theory of self-actualization: This theory is accredited to Abraham Maslow - a popular humanist. Motivation was conceived by the humanists in respect of how we conceive the world. Abraham Maslow constructed the mode of motivation referred to as the hierarchy of needs. Maslow argued that human needs are arranged in hierarchy. He believed that at the lower hierarchy before moving to the needs at the upper level of the hierarchy. He identified five levels of needs as follows: physiological needs, safety needs, love and belongingness needs, self-esteem needs, and self-actualization needs. Cognitive psychologists modified the theory by adding two needs to Maslow's original hierarchy of needs (Ezejiegwu, Chukwura and Muokwue, 2012). d. Murray's need theory of motivation: This theory highlight the importance of need in motivation. The implication of this theory is that one does not rest until he/she satisfies the need.e. McClelland Theory of Achievement Motivation: This theory is of the view that human beings are naturally moved to achieve. McClelland through his research on human motivation came to the view that there are three motives for individuals with high need for power. The motives for such people are power, affiliation and achievement.f. Freud's Psychoanalic Theory of Motivation: Freud opined that there is an unconscious motivation. Freud advocated that reasons for any behaviour could be found through the analysis of certain procedure of behaviour. By means of the analysis, the forces that cause certain behaviour could be disclosed.g. Theory of Intrinsic Motivation: This theory holds that behaviour emanates from the internal processes. In this case, behaviour occurs because of the internal needs and not for the external need.h. Homeostatic Theory of Motivation: The theory is also referred to as drive theory. Clark Hull was the leading proponent of the theory. According to the theory, behaviour is motivated by the desire to reduce internal tension caused by unsatisfied biological needs such as hunger and thirst.. i. Arousal Theory of Motivation: Arousal is a condition of alertness that leads to readiness to respond. According to this theory, performance of organisms varies with arousal.j. Cognitive Theory of Motivation: This theory centres on the influence of thought processes on motivation. It holds the view that incentives (goal expectances) produce motivation. The two major factors in this theory are expectancy and value. The value one attaches to something influences the degree of expectancy.2.2 Conceptual frameworkThe three major concepts in the study are highlighted - Language, Intrigue and Communication.2.2.1 LanguageLanguage is a verbal means of communication. According to Prasad (2009:1), "Language is primarily a human and non-instinctive method of communicating ideas, emotions and desires by means of a
3 system of voluntarily reduced symbols". On his own, Hall (1968:158) quoted in Lyons (2008:4) tells us that language is the institution whereby humans communicate and interact with each other by means of habitually used oral-auditory arbitrary symbols. Communication is the central idea in the above definitions.Language according to Prasad (2009:1) is the basis of human civilization. Anagbogu, Mbah and Erne (2010:16) see language "as a tool for thinking and even for dreaming". Socialization is achieved and promoted in the society through the use of language. Language is used for continuity in the society as a group of people uses it to hand down her tradition and culture from one generation to the other. Human uses language to express emotions. Language is used to establish rapport between individuals and between groups thus functioning as a binding force. Language can tell much about a person. Language is all embracing and it is basically studied by linguists.2.2.2 IntrigueThe origin and cause(s) of the idea of intrigue is unknown because it is impossible to say where and the exact point in time when it started. It is as old as history. Intrigue according to English Dictionary online (2015) is "a complicated or clandestine plot or scheme intended to effect some purpose by secret artifice; conspiracy; stratagem. Closely related to this is Noah Webster's Dictionary definition of intrigue as "a plot or scheme of a complicated nature, intended to effect some purpose by secret artifices. He further informs that an intrigue may be formed and prosecuted by an individual, but often several projectors are concerned in an intrigue. MacmillanDictionaryagreeswithNoahbydefiningintrigueassomethingusedtomakesomeone very interested in knowing more about something, especially something that seems mysterious.Collins Thesaurus (2002) says, as "a noun, intrigue is a plot, scheme, conspiracy, manoeuvre, manipulation, collusion, rise, trickery, cabal, stratagem, double-dealing, chicanery, sharp practice, vile, knavery, machination, the plots and intrigues in the novel". Intrigue as a verb is seen by Thesaurus as "interest, fascinate, arouse the curiosity of, attract, charm, rivel, titillate, pigue". Definition of intrigue is unending and they are all related in the sense that intrigue is a plot, a complicated scheme, a manoeuvre, a manipulation etc. intended to effect some purpose or under-hand plan. Intrigue occur in the following areas of life; politics, socio-economics, religion and religious life, some world plays, etc.2.2.3. Communication In everyday life, living organisms especially man and other lower animals communicate or share their thoughts and feelings with one another or with nature. To communicate according to Pearson (2001:266) is to express your thoughts and feelings clearly, so that other people understand. According to him, communication is the process by which people exchange information or express their thoughts and feelings. Communication in its most general sense, is a chain of events which the significant link is a message. This message can be passed positively for a good effect or negatively used as intrigue for negative effects depending on the motive of the individual communicating. Men’s hands, brains, eyes, ears and months are the chief organic means of communication (Encyclopedia Americana International).3.0 Data AnalysisData collected are analysed here showing relationship between language, communication and intrigue.
4 3.1 Communication as a means of intrigueThere are two types of communication: verbal and non-verbal communication. 3.1.1. Non-verbal Communication as an Instrument for IntrigueNon-verbal communication can be in form of signals, signs and symbols and some people use them as instruments or means of carrying out intrigues:(a) Signs and Signals as related to IntrigueThe New Encyclopedia Britannica (2005:625) regards signals, signs and symbols as three related components of communication processes found in all known cultures, and do not relate primarily to the usual conception of words or language. The Encyclopedia considers signals as an interruption in a field of constant energy transfer. An example is the dots and dashes that open and close in the electromagnetic field of a telegraph circuit. Signs are usually less connected with the development of words than signals, most of them contain greater amount of meaning of and by themselves. The main difference between a sign and a signal is that sign (like a policeman's badge) contains meanings of an intrinsic nature; a signal (like a scream for help) is merely a device by which one is able to formulate extrinsic meanings. People use badges (police badge, National Youth Service Corps badge) (NYSC) etc to confuse and deceive others. People can raise false alarm to attract people's attention and dupe or rob them when they come to render help to them.For instance, somebody can dress like a pregnant woman who is in labour and raise false alarm for people to take her to hospital, or somebody can pretend to be stranded on the highway or to be sick (crying and weeping for help). Anybody or vehicle that stops to help, robbers that are in the hiding in the bush would immediately rush to the person and rob or even kill him. Armed robbers even at times sing choruses while they are on their way to rob people.The underhand plan is to confuse policemen who mount road block. In luxurious buses to and fro Lagos for instance, armed robbers at times organize praise singing and preach the gospel as well. They use signs and signals to communicate to their members inside the vehicle and all of a sudden they bring out their guns and command the driver to stop.Signs are culturally bound because all known cultures utilize signs to convey relatively simple message quickly and conveniently. Signs may depend on their meanings upon their form, settings, colour, or location. Examples are traffic signs, uniforms, badges, etc. They can also be used as instruments for intrigues. People can use various parts of their body l i k e the eye, mouth, hands, legs, facial contortion, etc to give different types of information which is left for the receiver to decode and use. The information can be in the positive direction or negative, used in destroying, deceiving or harmful effect on the unsuspecting individuals.Because of the meaning people from different cultures attach to signs and signals, people with dubious mind use them in negative ways to deceive people. Armed robbers at times mount road blocks and diversions with police signs to deceive people and rob them of their valuable items. People even go on robbery in army or police uniform. Some even dress like ordained men of God e.g: pastors, reverend fathers and sisters and go on robbery. Armed robbers even use policemen or people in the army as a cover to their destinations. Some of them that need quick money even join armed robbers in stealing. Uwujare
5 (2011) gives a shameful report of a police corporal that turns a highway robber. (b) Symbols as related to IntrigueSymbols are also used as a means of non-verbal communication already has been stated here. U.C. Nwozuzu (2007:43) informs that a symbol differs from an allegorical sign in that it has a real existence whereas an allegorical sign is arbitrary. This means that signs are intangible and have no physical existence. According to The New Encyclopedia Britannica (2005), symbols are more difficult than signs to understand and to define because, unlike signs and signals, they are intricately woven into an individual's ongoing perception of the world. This means that symbol has to do with the culture and philosophy of the people that own it. The symbol has been defined as any device with which an abstraction can be made; e.g. flag. Anywhere you go if you see Nigerian flag there, it means that that place has something to do with Nigeria. Because of the notion people have about flag, dupes, robbers, kidnappers, etc use them to deceive people.Generally, people believe that man used' physical symbols to communicate before abstract symbol communication (U. C. Nwaozuzu, 2007). This is in line with the thought of Osofisan (1998:3) presented in U. C. Nwaozuzu (2007:44) that space predates words and that the first act of translation into space was not acoustic or verbal but rather sculptural and dramatic.For something to be symbolic or symbolical means that it is used to represent or suggest something or idea, e.g. a symbolic painting. The snake is symbolic of evil. Symbolic on the other hand is the use of symbol to represent something, e.g. religious symbolism. In the African Traditional Religion (ATR), "omu" symbolizes danger, death, sanction, no entry, keep off, etc. Today, some people carry contra band goods in coffin and put 'omu' on the vehicle to confuse the custom officers and police on the high way. Some armed robbers even use that means to carry their arms and go scotch free. In Christianity, the cross symbolizes Christ. The cross also symbolizes hospital, Red Cross Society, etc. ‘Nzu’ (white chalk) in Igbo culture symbolizes purity. ‘Oji’ (colanut) symbolizes peace and hospitality. In Europe it is the colour white that symbolizes purity. Peace is symbolized by a dove. Certain costumes are symbolic, e.g. red dress can symbolize danger. Black dress symbolizes mourning, etc. Tattered clothes symbolize poverty/backwardness, madness, etc. Some people wear tattered clothes, pretend to be insane but their motive is to deceive people and harm them.People can use omu, (tender palmfrond) cola, nzu (white chalk), cross, types of dressing anddresses to deceive people. Example, the cross symbolizes Christ, Church, or Red Cross Society. Not everybody that wears a cross is a Christian. Some native doctors give crosses to people these days. Some people even use cross as their occultic sign thereby confusing the general masses. Dupes wear cross and other religious sacramentals like chaplet, anointed oil, anointed water, incense, scapulars, etc to deceive people.Again, in a positive direction, if anything happens in the society, people from Criminal Investigation Department (C.I.D.) can dress in tattered cloths, mourning dress, etc and mix up with people without their knowing it to get information about what has happened. In Igbo society, nzu, oji, mmanya are symbols of open heart and hospitality. But most of the time, people use them? With bitter heart
6 and give other people poison through food, cola and drink in order to kill them or drug them and make them unconscious for their own selfish and personal gains. In Onye Metere, Ezemrniri was used by Okezie to give poison to Ogbonnaya through food on an occasion and killed him. Agamevu in Eriri Mara Ngwugwu poisoned Ebubedike's drink and killed him in order to .marry his wife.U. C. Nwaozuzu (2007:44) classifies symbols into two broad groups: public/universal symbols and private/local symbols. These two groups of symbols are used in the society and literary artists use them in their art of writing. Private/local symbols embody objects and they arc peculiar to a particular locality or area and culture e.g. omu and oji have particular meanings to Igbo people. Public/universal symbols are those symbols that are generally known all over the world by people from all walks of life e.g. cross. At all times in Igbo land, the breaking and eating of cola nut, at times joined together with wine (drinks) is accompanied with the usual ritual because cola-nut is symbolic in Igbo land. At times, people perform the ritual having an ulterior motive instead of what it originally stands for. For example, somebody was building a house and called an elder in his family lo come and pray at the site using cola and drinks. The elder performed the ritual but secretly dropped a cowrie in the foundation for the building not knowing that someone saw him. The aim was to block the boy's means of livelihood and stop his progress so that he will abandon the building or even begin to beg for food. This is the handwork and plan of evil men in the society. The boy building the house can even be made to run mental or start suffering from one type of sickness or the other or even die. This is the result of greed and height of wickedness in the society.(c) Proxemics as related to IntrigueProxemics is another type of non-verbal communication discussed in The New Encyclopedia Britannica (2005). It points out that, "of more general cross-cultural significance are the theories involved in the study of "Proxemics" developed by a U.S. anthropologist, Edward Hall." It describes proxemics as the ways in which people in various cultures utilize both time and space as well as body positions and other factors for purpose of communication. Hall's 'silent language' or nonverbal communication consists of such culturally determined interactions as the physical distance or closeness maintained between individuals, the body heat they give off, odours they perceive in social situations, angles of vision they maintain while talking, the space of theirbehaviour, and the sense of time appropriate for communicating under differing conditions. People in different social organizations use this means to communicate secretly to their members so that other people will not understand them. Secret plans can be made against uninitiates and harm them or initiate them or use them in their own desired and selfish way(d) Natural Communications (ominous signs) as related to IntrigueInterestingly too, nature has a way of communicating to human beings through signs, signals and symbols. Nvvadike (1999:159) informs that "doubts, fears, worries, disappointments, failures, etc are readings from the barometer of the spirit, good in themselves to make us engage in the right gear and adjust to the right speed for the journey." Before the mishaps enumerated above get to us, the ominous gives a suggestion or warning about something bad that is about to happen. In various cultures
7 of the world, according to Nwadike, irrespective of the people's acceptance of Christianity or any other form of 'received' religion, or their high quality of civilization, such a people have their local premonitions and omens, or what the church calls 'superstitions'. Some people manipulate the natural signs to play intrigues on others, and harm them.The ominous can also manifest in the forms of dreams, peculiar signs nightmares, telepathies, visions, forewarnings, instinct information, man coming in contact with uncommon objects and happenings, and many other diversified forces that are associated with the people's world view. In real life, people can tell lies and claim that they have dreamt. People give false prophesies as the one Sera gave bout Adamma in an Igbo play Egwuregwu Igbo Abuo. As the ominous serve as warnings of impending doom or disaster, they can be prevented by prayers, rituals, sacrifices and extra carefulness in life. If a person has bad dreams, doubts, fears, worries, disappointments, failures, or other ominous signs, for instance, they can push the person into wrong hands like fake pastors, prophets, prayer houses, native doctors, ete. in search of solution thereby creating more problems for himself. People would take you to so many places, meeting so many people who would claim to have solution to the problem. If care is not taken, they would sap the individual concerned to the last kobo without any solution to the problem. As can be observed from the natural life, when the characters for whom the ominous point at have been destined for destruction and death, the circumstances cannot be prevented no matter the amount of efforts he makes to prevent it. Nature takes its course on the Characterconcerned.3.1.2 Verbal Communication (Language) as an Instrument for IntrigueWhen one talks about verbal or vocal means of communication, one is referring to language. Language distinguishes man from other animals. Other animals can communicate in one way or the other but it is only man that is endowed with the capabilities to use language. It is a special attribute of man as a homo sapien. Bloomfield (1933:3) quoted in Anozie (2007) in confirmation of this says, "The effects of language are remarkable and include much of what distinguishes man from the animals..."Citing Johnson (1999), Quirk (2003:5) quoted in Anozie (2007) describes language as "the dress of thought". This is to say that language expresses thought. Man thinks first before expressing his thought through language. This is why it is generally believed that "out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks." But at times, people have one thing in mind while their mouth is saying another thing. Example, Ukpabi and Dunn Okpokiri in the Igbo drama Eriri Mara Ngwugwu used utterances to deceive Akachukwu. Eze (2005) quoted in Obi (2006a) observes that man represents his thoughts through verbal and non-verbal symbols. Verbal representation involves the oral or written form while non-verbal representation involves the use of body language and visual arts. The International Encyclopedia of Education describes language arts as "those human endeavours concerned with using language to represent meaning to oneself and others in order to attain personal purposes in a social world. People use language to plan and execute intrigues.Language was first of all used orally before its written form emanated (Afigbo 1975, Oraka 1983, Nwadike 2002, Ricard 2007:7 & UNESCO, 1965). Yule (1966:3) says. "The desire for a more
8 permanent record of what was known must have been the primary motivation for the development of marking and inscriptions, and eventually, of written language”. Writing can be used as a form of intrigue to rope people in or to get underserved favour. In Julius Caesar for instance, the conspirators wrote letters in different handwritings to convince people that many people are against Caesar, portraying him in a bad light. It happens like that in real life. People for one reason or the other write secret letters and petitions against their fellow human beings in order to deprive them f their positions or one type of favour or the other. They place false allegations on people accusing them falsely.Language is a very vital instrument in the hand of man used chiefly for 'Communication and also for learning. Briton (1970) and Donaldson (1978) in their own contribution add that Language also plays a role in the way people learn about their social and physical environments, represent and shape these experiences, conceptualize and respond to their personal feelings and attitudes, and make this knowing available to themselves and others. Language is a double edged sword. It can be used positively to teach and learn how to build. It can as well be used negatively to teach and learn how to destroy. It might interest one to know that today, there are free information in the internet for people to learn how to construct bombs used in destroying lives and properties unnecessarily.Briton (1970) also identified two key roles of language: the participant role and spectator role. H e argued the importance of the two key roles of language saying that "Language in participant role is language used as a means to some practical end beyond itself, such as informing, persuading and direction giving." He also explains that language in the spectator role is used primarily to recount, reflect on and enjoy experiences - real or imagined - in which the account, the recollections or the language itself becomes the main concern rather than a means to some practical end. People manipulate language and situations and interprets them in their own styles to achieve their sinister goals. People carry out a l o t of intrigues in our societies today using language in the above mentioned manner.Another function of language is the role described by Yule as "the interactional function". The interactional function of language according to Yule is concerned with how human beings use language to interact with each other, socially or emotionally; how they indicate friendliness, co-operation or hostility or annoyances, pain or pleasures. Some people use language craftily in their interactions with people to deceive and cheat on them. Ukpaabi and Duru Okpokiri in Eriri Mara Ngwugwu used their language of irony to deceive Akachukwu. A lot of intrigues abound in people's relationship with one another.Yule further identifies another major function of language, "the transactional function, whereby humans use their linguistic abilities to communicate knowledge, skills, and information. Some people use their own linguistic ability perfectly in their intriguous activities in the society. Some business men use language to manipulate and deceive their customers in their business transactions and make them buy their fake or low quality products. Through this means also they sell their goods at exorbitant prices to their unsuspecting customers who believe them to be true to their words. Packaging is deceitful. A lot of intrigues are involved in adverts and packaging of some products.Knowledge may be transferred wrongly from one generation to the other. Language makes it possible for people to transmit knowledge (information) across space and time. It is a means of
9 socialization (Nwadike, 2008:13). But few people that are knowledgeable in the society sometimes use their knowledge negatively to manipulate the ignorant people in the society and use them to cause havoc and confusion. In Nigeria, this is one of the reasons why we hear about thurgery, Boko Haram, MASOB Alaye, etc. in our society today. Better communication is the major instrument for the sustenance of peace and tranquility in the whole world. Birk and Birk (1950:26) quoted in Obidiebube (2011), has it that war and frictions between nations and groups are often caused by an ignorance of true relationship between words and things. They further inform that individual misunderstandings are largely the result of similar ignorance and consequent failure to interprete and communicate effectively. At times people seem to be crafty and use intrigues to transmit wrong information thereby causing confusion around them.Man in his relationship with each other in his society may use language the way occasion warrants. Hemay use language positively or negatively. This is because, languages are in a constant process of change in sound, in form, and in meaning as long as they are spoken. Man has the ability to manipulate his language to suit him. For instance, orators have the ability of using language through the way they choose words to move crowds, Nwaka the antagonist in Chinua Achebe's Arrow of God used language to spur his people into war with the people of Okperi, a neighbouring town. In the same light, militants, leaders of insurgent groups, and leaders of various groups all over the world use language to control, spur and make people behave the way and manner they would not have. These, if not well handled could lead to intrigues.3.3 Motivation, Language, Communication and IntrigueThe term motivation is derived from the Latin word movere meaning to move. Motivation isassociated with movement into action. Motivation according to Colman (2003), is a driving force(s) responsible for initiation, persistence, direction and vigour of goal-directed behaviour. In life, people are motivated to make movements. Movement according to Ikeokwu (2008:138) "involve changing position or gradual change in an attitude, opinion or policy. There is movement in space and time. People can be extrinsically or intrinsically motivated to move into action.People are motivated to carry out intrigues because of the following motives: politics, religion and religious life, socio-economic reasons, physiological and psychological needs; safety needs, love and belongingness needs, self-esteem needs and also cognitive and aesthetic needs. People are often motivated to motivate others and carry out intrigues against them in order to belong or to satisfy their needs. They use different means of communication available to them to perfect their act.Physiological theory of motivation believe that the brain is the central portion in the physiological control of human behaviour. People at times work on people's brain and get them confused in order to carry out their under-hand plan. Homeostatic theory of motivation maintains that the body monitors and maintains relatively constant levels of internal states such as body fluid, temperature and energy supplies. At times, people drug others and destabilize their system in order to abduct or kidnap them for political or socio-economic reasons and communicate in different forms to achieve their objectives. Very related to this theory, is arousal theory of motivation which refers to the body's general level of activity that is reflected in several physiological indexes. This includes muscle tension, skin response, electrical activity in the brain and heart rate.
10 People can use intrigue to seduce and arouse the opposite sex and put them in a condition of alertness that leads to readiness to respond and rape them and dump them or even make them lose their life and properties.Cognitive theory of motivation centres on the influence of thought process on motivation. Expecting or anticipating something of value produces positive motivation. One may be talked into that type of expectancy when one is presented with lucrative business plan and the person might be carried away by the thought of getting something good or gain and end up being duped and deprived of his/her valuable personal belongings. Theory of intrinsic motivation holds that behaviour comes from internal process. Esau lost his birthright to Jacob because of hunger. People still take undue advantage of people's internal need to play some intrigue on them. Murray's need theory of motivation highlight the importance of need in motivation. According to Murray, if need is unsatisfied, it would arouse the person to work until satisfaction is attained. Some people are dependent on others for the satisfaction of their primary and secondary needs. The person being depended on may play a lot of intrigues on the dependant thereby exploiting the person or take undue advantage on him or her. The dependent is perpetually subdued and put under control through this means.McClelland theory of achievement motivation noted that there are people that love affluence and social recognition. McClelland observed that most of such people have the need for power. If this motivation is negatively applied, such people can cause confusion where they are and use a lot of intrigues to talk people into supporting them to take over leadership. In the military, such people can be coupe plotters so that they will be at the helm of affairs. Such people can as well be intrigued by others using their love for affluence and recognition. The paper concludes that motivation and communication are related and if they are positively employed brings about good result.The paper recommends that people should be careful and also not to be selfish in their use of language and communication.
REFERENCESAbrams, M.H. (2005). A glossary of literary term (8th. ed). Australia: Thomson Wadsworth.Affigbo, A.E. (1975). The Place of the Igbo language in our schools: A historical approach. In Ọgbalụ, F.C.& Emenanjọ, E.N. (eds.) Igbo language and culture. Ibadan: Oxford University press. Anozie, C.C. (2007). General linguistics: An introduction. Enugu: Tashiwa.Briton, J.N. (1970). Language and learning. Hamondsworth: Penguin Books. Donaldson, M. (1978). Children’s mind. London: Fontana.Egudu, R.N. (1979). Modern African poetry and African predication. London: Lawrence and Utishart..Ezejiegwu, A.A.; Chukwura, E.N.& Muokwue, C,A, (2012). Psychology of human learning, Onitsha: Westand Solomon.Ikeokwu, E.S. (2008). Gender identify: An analysis of selected contemporary Igbo plays. An unpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Nigeria, Nsukka.Nwadike, I.U. (1999). The ominous in contemporary Igbo literature. Nsukka journal of the humanities.Nwadike, I.U. (2002). Igbo language in education: An Historical study. Obosi: PacificNwadike, I.U. (2008). Igbo studies: From the Plantations of West Indies to the forest Lands of West Africa, 1766 – 2008. An inaugural lecture of the University of Nigeria, NsukkaNwaozuzu, G.I. (2005). Nke M Ji Ka. Enugu: CIDJAP Press. Nwaozuzu, G.I. (2009). Eruru. Enugu: Format.Nwaozuzu, U.C. (2007). Beyond the second language dilemma: An excursion into alternate means of communication of meaning for English playwright of Igbo extraction. Journal of Igbo studies.Obi, N.M. (2006a). Language: A tool of literature. In Ndimele, .D. (ed.) The study of language and linguistics in Nigeria. A Festschrift for Kay Williamson. Aba: National Institute for Nigerian languages and Grand Orbit Communication.Obidiebube, J.I. (2011). Script as an instrument for sustaining emerging democracy: A case for the development of African scripts. International Bi-Lingual Journal of anti-corruption, Law, humanities, social sciences and development studies 2(2). 29-35.Onyekaọnwụ, G.O. (1985). Eriri mara ngwugwu. Ibadan: University PressOraka, L.N. (1983). The foundations of Igbo studies. Onitsha: University publishing company.Pearson, E. (2001). Longman dictionary of contemporary English (3rd.ed.). England: Longman.Prasad, T. (2009). A course in Linguistics. New Delhi: PHI Learning.Ricard, A. (2007). Africa and writing. In Olanyan, T. & Guayson, A. (eds.) African literature: An Anthology of criticism and theory. USA: Blackwell.The New Encyclopedia Britannica (15th .ed.) Vol. 16 (2005). Chicago: Encyclopedia Britannica. UNESCO. (1965). The art of writing. Germany: Druck and Verlagshaus F.W. Wessel.Yule, G. (1996). The study of language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.11   