AbstractChinese-Spanish translation is particularly complicated because of the extensive grammatical, syntactic and discursive differences between the two languages. This study proposes to contrast the discourse produced in parallel texts in these languages in order to find how the discursive information is formally expressed in both of them. Following a new created qualitative method by Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada (2015), types of agreement and sources of disagreement haven been established between this language pair.IntroductionSecond AuthorAffiliation / Address line 1 Affiliation / Address line 2 Affiliation / Address line 3 email@domainfield, although discourse information is crucial for many NLP tasks (Zhou et al., 2014). In particular, the relation between MT and discourse analysis has only recently begun and works addressing this topic remain limited. A shortcoming of the existing systems is that discourse level is not considered in the translation and the discourse elements affect translation quality (Mayor et al., 2009; Wilks 2009). Notwithstanding, some recent researches indicate that discourse structure improves MT evaluation. Fomicheva, da Cunha and Sierra (2012) use a Spanish-English corpus to evaluate two MT systems via the discourse strategies in order to prove that these two MT systems maintain a basic discourse structure of the translated language. Guzmán et al. (2014) compare the output of MT and a human reference to show the improvement of MT at discourse level.The studies that use Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) by Mann and Thompson (1988) as theoretical framework are a contribution to discourse analysis research. RST is a linguistically useful theory for describing natural texts and their hierarchic structure. Rhetorical relations are recursive in RST and are defined to hold between two non-overlapping text spans. Marcu (2000) calls these spans Elementary Discourse Units (EDUs). These EDUs can be Nuclei or Satellites (Satellites offer additional information about Nuclei). The relations can be Nucleus-Satellite (e.g. Cause, Result, Concession, Antithesis) or Multinuclear (e.g. List, Contrast, Joint).RST is adequate for our study because of the following reasons:Exploration of discourse differences and similarities between Chinese and Spanish: a corpus based study with a qualitative methodWhen there is a greater distance between a pair of language, there will be more differences in their syntax and discourse structure. Therefore, the translation between two very different languages can be potentially more difficult. Comparative or contrastive studies of discourse structures offer clues to express properly equivalent discourse elements in two languages. These clues can be useful for both human translation and machine translation (MT).The emphasis on the idea that discourse information may be useful for Natural Language Processing (NLP) has become increasingly popular. Discourse analysis is an unsolved problem in this
(1) RST is one of the most famous and representative discourse structure theories. It shows a good applicability in a cross-culture comparative study. As Mann and Thompson indicate (1988: 247): “RST is an abstract set of conventions. We can view the conventions as either independent or inclusive of particular relation definitions. The first view is more comprehensive, but the latter is more convenient - we use the latter. The first view would be essential for a cross-linguistic or cross-cultural comparative study in which relation definitions might differ.”Our research is comparative and focuses on a parallel Chinese-Spanish corpus, which corresponds to the above citation.(2) The set of relations proposed in the framework of RST is representative for the analysis of the discourse of any field or text genre (Mann and Thompson, 1988). The investigation targets of our work are Chinese and Spanish written texts, which include various topics or subjects.(3) In a contrastive study, the RST elements (segments, relations and discourse structure) can discover how the discourse elements are being expressed formally in each language. This could reflect the similarities and differences of the rhetorical structure of the language pair.Here are two examples of discourse similarities and differences between Chinese and Spanish.Ex. 1:1.1. Ch: 虽然他病得很重,但是他去上班了。 [虽然他病得很重,] EDU_S [但是他去上班了。]EDU_N(Marker_1 he ill very, marker_2 he goes to work.) 1 1.2. Sp: Aunque está muy enfermo, va a trabajar. [Aunque está muy enfermo,]EDU_S [va atrabajar.]EDU_N(Marker_1 is very ill, goes to work.)1.3. En: Though he is very ill, he goes to work. 2In example 1, Chinese and Spanish passages show the same rhetorical relation (Concession), and the order of the Nucleus and the Satellite is1 In this work, we offer an English literal translation in brackets for the first two examples in order to understand each example better.2 In this work, for all the examples we give, all the English translations are translated from the Chinese sentences by authors.also similar. However, in Chinese, it is mandatory to include two discourse markers to show this relation: one discourse marker “suiran” (虽然) at the beginning of the Satellite and another discourse marker “danshi”(但是) at the beginning of the Nucleus. These two discourse markers are equivalent to the English discourse marker ‘although’. By contrast, in Spanish, to show the Concession relation, only one discourse marker is used at the beginning of the Satellite (in this case, aunque, ‘although’ in English).Ex.2:2.1. Ch: 很冷,虽然没有下雨。 [很冷,]EDU_N [虽然没有下雨]EDU_S (It’s cold, marker_1 there is no rain.)2.2.1. Sp: Hace frío, aunque no llueve.[Hace frío,]EDU_N [aunque no llueve.]EDU_S(Makes cold, marker_1 no rain.)2.2.2. Sp: Aunque no llueve, hace frío. [Aunque no llueve,]EDU_S [hace frío.]EDU_N (Marker_1 no rain, has cold.)2.3. En: It is cold, though there is no rain.In example 2, the Chinese passage could have the same or the different rhetorical structure. In the Chinese passage, the discourse marker “suiran” (虽然) at the beginning of Satellite, which is equivalent to the English discourse marker ‘although’, shows a Concession relation, and the order between Nucleus and the Satellite cannot be changed. In the Spanish passage, aunque is also at the beginning of Satellite,‘although’, and shows the same discourse relation, but the order between Nucleus and Satellite can be changed andthis makes sense syntactically.From the examples above, we can see that forexpressing a same RST relation in a written text, the rhetorical structure between Chinese and Spanish can be the same, but the number of discourse markers may be different. Moreover, under a same RST relation, the rhetorical structure between these two languages can be different or same, while the number of discourse markers is same.Taking into account discourse information when a translation is carried out is necessary for a good quality of the translation. which also corresponds to the English discourse marker 
Based on three Chinese-Spanish parallel texts in United Nations Corpus (UN) (Rafalovitch and Dale, 2009; Eisele and Chen, 2010), we will compare the discourse structure of Chinese and Spanish.In Section 2, we will introduce some related works that use RST. In Section 3, we will give the detail information of the methodology. In Section 4, we will present the results. In Section 5, we will conclude the research information and look ahead at future work.2 Related WorkThus far there have not been many studies addressing discourse analysis relating to our subject of study. Yet some comparative studies between Chinese and English by employing RST exist. Cui (1986) presents some aspects regarding discourse relations between Chinese and English; Kong (1998) compares Chinese and English business letters; Guy (2000, 2001) compares Chinese and English journalistic news texts.Other pairs of language within RST include Japanese and Spanish (Kumpf, 1986; Marcu et al., 2000), Arabic and English (Mohamed and Omer, 1999), French and English (Delin, Hartley and Scott, 1996; Salkie and Oates, 1999), Dutch and English (Abelen, Gisla and Thompson, 1993), Finnish and English (Sarjala, 1994), Spanish and Basque (da Cunha and Iruskieta, 2010).There are few contrastive works between Spanish and Chinese. None of them use RST. Yao (2008) uses film dialogues to elaborate an annotated corpus, and compares the Chinese and Spanish discourse markers in order to give some suggestions for teaching and learning Spanish and Chinese. In this work, Yao does not use any framework clearly; he just analyses and compares Spanish and Chinese discourse markers’ characteristics and then makes conclusions. Taking different newspapers and books as the research corpus, Chien (2012) compares the Spanish and Chinese conditional discourse markers to give some conclusions on the conditional discourse marker for foreign language teaching between Spanish and Chinese. Wang (2013) uses a corpus of films to analyse how the subtitled Spanish discourse markers can be translated into Chinese, so as to make a guideline for human translationsand audiovisual translation between the language pair.The RST contrastive studies that use more than two languages are not common, for example, Portuguese-French-English (Scott, Delin and Hartley, 1998). In this work, a methodology has been presented for RST contrastive analysis while the empirical cross-lingual results have been published. Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada (2015) use RST as theoretical framework to compare Basque, Spanish and English, and they create a new qualitative method for the comparison of rhetorical structures in different languages and to specify why the rhetorical structure may be different in translated texts.3 MethodologyThe first methodology for the comparison of discourse analysis was created by Marcu (2000). This method was used to compare automatically built discourse trees with manually built ones, so as to evaluate the correctness of discourse trees. However, other works have highlighted the limitations of this method, which are the following (van der Vliet, 2010; da Cunha and Iruskieta, 2010):• Factor confliction. The method compares two discourse elements that are not independent of each other; these are nuclearity and relation.• Deficiencies in the descriptions. In a certain rhetorical structure, the comparison and weight of the agreement was described as superficial.In order to improve the limitation of Marcu’s (2000) method, Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada (2015) elaborate a new method for the comparison of discourse analysis, which has been defined as a qualitative method. This new method can explain the causes of discourse differences in written texts in different languages and has been adopted for thiswork.In this qualitative method, four independent criteria have been considered: 1) constituent (C); 2) attachment point (A); 3) the direction of the relation (R) and 4) effect of the relation. The types of agreement and sources of disagreement have been considered in this qualitative method.
There are four types of agreement (Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada, 2015: 276):• Agreement in relation, constituent and attachment point (RCA).• Agreement in relation and constituent (RC).• Agreement in relation and attachment point (RA).• Agreement only in relation (R).Meanwhile seven sources of disagreement have been found (Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada, 2015: 276):• Different choice in nuclearity entailing a N/N-N/S mix-up (N/N-N/S).• Different choice in nuclearity entailing a discrepancy in N/S relations (N/S).• A relation has the same constituent and attachment point, but not the same relation label (≠R).• Relations chosen are similar in nature (Similar R).• Relations with mismatched RST trees (Mismatch R).• A relation is more specific than other (Specificity).• Different choice in attachment entailing a different relation (Attachment).In our work, we have selected three texts named Article 9, Article 10 and Article 11 in the UN corpus to as the test samples. The UN corpus contains all 6 official languages (English, Chinese, Spanish, Arabic, Russian and French) of the UN, consisting of around 300 million words for each language. Recorded in March of 2010, this corpus consists of 463,406 documents, 80,931,645 sentences in total. 326 million words have been calculated as the average number for five of the six official languages.The original language of the official documents in the UN corpus is English. The parallel corpus is translated from English, so the parallel corpus Chinese-Spanish is actually made up of two parts. One is the translation between English and Chinese, and the other is translation between English and Spanish. It is these translated Chinese and Spanishdocuments make up the UN Chinese-Spanish parallel corpus. The UN Chinese-Spanish parallel corpus is not a direct translation corpus. Table 1 shows the detail information of the UN corpus and its subcorpus in Chinese and in Spanish.   Name       UN corpus      Spanish subcorpus     Chinese subcorpus   No of documents  463,406 70,509 65,022   No of sentences       80,931,6 45      13,052,875     10,839,473   No of words  326 million for each language 352,460,926   756,108,566     No of Ch- Sp parallel documents       /    62,738  Table 1: Statistics of the Spanish and Chinese subcorporaIn this research, we have annotated the selected three texts manually with RSTTool (O’Donnell, 1997). Then we do the discourse comparison with the qualitative method. Figure 1 shows an example of annotation Chinese and Spanish passages with RSTTool.(English translation: I do not like this coat, because it looks ugly.)Figure 1: Annotation Chinese and Spanish passages with RSTTool 4ResultsAdopting the qualitative method for this work, we have encountered some sources of differences in our annotation result. From figure 2 and figure 3 we can see that, in Article 9, although the number of EDUs in Chinese text and Spanish text is the same, there are EUDs that do not correspond to the parallel EDUs.
In Article 9, EDU3 and EDU4 in Chinese text correspond to EDU3 in Spanish text. In the Chinese text, EDU4 contains a discourse marker “danshi” (但是) and is a nucleus in an Antithesis relation. EDU3 shows a disfavoured idea and is the satellite of EDU4. Nevertheless, in the Spanish text, EDU3 does not have a discourse marker to show an Antithesis relation and it has not been segmented.that must be rectified by harmonizing the numbers of the two parts. Based on this point, we carry out a harmonization work regarding to discourse segmentation. Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada (2015: 287) consider it is adequate: “We harmonize the segmentation taking into account the structure of the simplest passage.”Figure 4 shows the harmonization result of the Article 9. We combine EDU3 with EDU4 as one EDU in the Chinese text because of its parallel Spanish part only contains one EDU.For the case of Same-unit, we may consider EDU5 and EDU7 as a new independent EDU5, and this can match up with EDU5 in the Chinese text.  (English translation: When a person concerned who is qualified to require the nationality of the successor State, but also the nationality of another State concerned.)Figure 2: Annotation result of Article 9 in Chinese text and Spanish textIn Figure 3, we can see that in the Spanish text, as an embedded element, EDU6 has been moved outside of the enclosing text, EDU5 and EDU7 form a Same-unit relation, but this relation does not exist in the Chinese text.(English translation: However, this requirement does not apply in a manner that would cause stateless, even if only temporarily.) Figure 3: Annotation of Same-unit caseThe qualitative method dictates that in a parallel corpus, each part must contain the same number of EDUs as its parallel part. If the numbers of EDUs are not the same, we are presented with a situationFigure 4: Harmonization work of Article 9As figure 4 shows, after combining EDU5 and EDU7, a Same-unit relation has been eliminated. The elimination of the relation is another harmonization part that we need to highlight here. This is a consequence of the harmonization of segmentation. In our future work, we will annotate and explain all the changes caused by this harmonization in order to avoid losing information.Figure 5 and figure 6 show another similar case. The comparison of the second part of Article 11 before we harmonize the number of EDUs is demonstrated in figure 5.(English translation: If the person concerned might become stateless as a result of the succession of  
 States, each concerned State grants the right to opt for its nationality to persons concerned who have a link with that State approved.)Figure 5: Comparison of the second part of Article 11 before the harmonizationFigure 5 shows that in Chinese text, the sentence “ruguo youguan de ren keneng yin guoji jicheng er chengwei wuguoji” (如果有关的人可能因为国籍 继承成为无国籍) is an independent EDU18 and is a conditioning situation of EDU19. In the Spanish text, this sentence has been segmented into three independent EDUs and these EDUs form two RST relations, one is Otherwise and another relation is Same-unit. Following the principle of “the comparison should be simple”, in the Spanish text, we eliminate a relation so that the comparison could be simpler. Figure 6 displays the harmonization result of the second part of the Article 11.Figure 6: Harmonization of Article 11Figure 6 shows that in the Spanish text the relation of Otherwise has been eliminated, meanwhile we have combined EDU16, EDU17 and EDU18 into an independent EDU, a new EDU16. This EDU16 correspond to EDU16 in the Chinese text.During the comparison, another situation we find is that a multinuclear relation (except the Same-unit relation) is included in a constituent of another relation.3 Figure 7 presents this case and appears in the Spanish text.3 Though the Same-unit relation is a multinuclear relation, in our work, we consider the two EDUs, which form a Same-unit relation, as an independent EDU.Figure 7: A multinuclear relation inside of a constituent of another relation in Spanish textIn figure 7, EDU7-8 and EDU9-10 form a Preparation relation: EDU7-8 is the satellite that prepares the content of EDU9-10. However, EDU9-10 contains EDU9 and EDU10, which form a multinuclear relation known as List. This List (multinuclear) relation is inside the Preparation relation (N-S).Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada (2015) introduce two choices for this case: 1) do not compare the relations and annotate as “no match” or 2) compare the non-ambiguous relation first and leave the problematic comparisons until last. For this paper, we opt for the second option. We first compare the Preparation relation and leave the List relation at last. Table 2 concludes the types of agreement and sources of disagreement of this work.Table 2: Annotation result of agreement and disagreementIn Table 3, we present the results of our evaluation method for the example in table 2.Table 3: Qualitative evaluation results for the example in table 2      Qualitative evaluation             Types of agreement   Sources of disagreement       RCA   ≠R           CA     R     RC      Nuclearity     Relation Composition     Attachment   Match     F1 Match     F1   Match   F1 Match     F1   15/17       0.88    17/17      1      16/17     0.94   13/17      0.76    
5 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this work, based on the qualitative method (Iruskieta, da Cunha and Taboada, 2015), we annotate three texts in the UN corpus to explore the discourse similarities and differences between the language pair Chinese-Spanish. Based on the annotation result, we have established the types of agreement and sources of disagreement and give a qualitative evaluation for our annotation work.We are aware of that the only three texts are not sufficient for a comparative discourse analysis, and the text genre is simple, which does not reflect various rhetorical structures in each language. The small number of research samples and the simple text genre explain why the result of the evaluation is quite high.This work is a corpus-based preliminary study. For our future work, we will annotate more Chinese-Spanish parallel texts in order to make the evaluation result more accurate and to provide more discourse information for the translation between this language pair.ReferencesAbelen E., Redeker G. and Thompson S. A. 1993. The rhetorical structure of US-American and Dutch fund- raising letters. Text, 13(3):323-512.Carlson L., Marcu D., and Okurowski M. E. 2001. Building a discourse-tagged corpus in the framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory. In Proceedings of the Second SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue. 1-10.Cui S. R. 1985. Comparing Structures of Essays in Chinese and English. Master thesis. Los Angeles: University of California.Chien Y. S. 2012. Análisis contrastivo de los marcadores condicionales del español y del chino. PhD thesis. Salamanca: Universidad de Salamanca.da Cunha I. and Iruskieta, M. 2010. Comparing rhetorical structures of different languages: The influence of translation strategies. Discourse Studies 12(5). 563-598.Delin J., Hartley A. F. and Scott, D. R. 1996. Towards a contrastive pragmatics: Syntatic choice in English and French instructions. Language Sciences 18(3-4). 897-931.Eisele A. and Chen Y. 2010. MultiUN: A Multilingual Corpus from United Nation Documents. In Language Resources and Evaluation Conference. 2868-2872.Fomicheva M., da Cunha, I., and Sierra, G. 2012. La estructura discursiva como criterio de evaluación de traducciones automáticas: una primera aproximación. In Empiricism and analytical tools for 21 century applied linguistics: selected papers from the XXIX International Conference of the Spanish Association of Applied Linguistics (AESLA). 973-986.Guy, R. 2000. Linearity in Rhetorical Organisation: A Comparative Cross-cultural Analysis of Newstext from the People’s Republic of China and Australia. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 10(2): 241-58.Guy, R. 2001. What Are They Getting At? Placement of Important Ideas in Chinese Newstext: A Contrastive Analysis with Australian Newstext. Australian Review of Applied Linguistics, 24(2):17-34.Guzmán F., Joty S., Màrquez, Ll., and Nakov, P. 2014. Using Discourse Structure Improves Machine Translation Evaluation. In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. 687-698.Iruskieta, M., da Cunha, I. and Taboada, M. 2015. A Qualitative Comparison Method for Rhetorical Structures: Identifying different discourse structures in multilingual corpora. Language resources and evaluation, 49(2):263-309.Kong K. C. C. 1998. Are simple business request letters really simple? A comparison of Chinese and English business request letters. Text, 18(1):103-141.Kumpf L. 1975. Structuring Narratives in a Second Language: A description of Rhetoric and Grammar. PhD thesis. Los Angeles: University of California.Mann W. C. and Thompson, S. A. 1988. Rhetorical Structure Theory: Toward a functional theory of text organization. Text, 8(3):243-281.Marcu D. 2000. The rhetorical parsing of unrestricted texts: A surface-based approach. Computational Linguistics, 26(3):395-448.Marcu D., Carlson, L., and Watanabe, M. 2000. The automatic translation of discourse structures. In 1st North American chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics conferences. 9-17.Mayor A., Alegria, I., Díaz de Ilarraza, A., Labaka, G., Lersundi, M., and Sarasola, K. 2009. Evaluación de un sistema de traducción automática basado en reglas o porqué BLEU sólo sirve para lo que sirve. Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural, 43:197-205.Mohamed A. H. and Omer M. R. 1999. Syntax as a marker of rhetorical organization in written texts: Arabic and English. International Review of Applied
Linguistics in Language Teaching (IRAL), 37(4):291-305.O’Donnell, M. 1997. RST-tool: An RST analysis tool. In Proceedings of the 6th European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation. 92-96.Rafalovitch, A. and Dale, R. 2009. United Nations general assembly resolutions: A six-languages parallel corpus. In Proceedings of MT Summit XII. 292-299.Salkie, R., Oates S. L. 1999. Contrast and concession in French and English. Languages in Contrast, 2(1):27- 56.Sarjala, M. 1994. Signalling of reason and cause relations in academic discourse. Anglicana Turkuensia, 13:89-98.Scott R., Delin, J., and Hartley A. F. 1998. Identifying congruent pragmatic relations in procedural texts. Languages in contrast, 1(1):45-82.Van der Vliet N. 2010. Inter annotator agreement in discourse analysis [Online]. http://www.let.rug.nl/nerbonne/teach/rema-stats- meth-seminar/ [Last consulted: 14 of May, 2015]Wilks, Y. 2009. Machine Translation: Its scope and limits. 3a ed. New York: Springer.Wang Y. C. 2013. Los marcadores conversacionales en el subtitulado del español al chino: análisis de La mala educación y Volver de Pedro Almodóvar. PhD thesis. Barcelona: Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.Yao J. M. 2008. Estudio comparativo de los marcadores del discurso en español y en chino a través de diálogos cinematográficos. PhD thesis. Valladolid: Universidad de Valladolid.Yue M. 2006. Hanyu caijingpinglun de xiucijiegou biaozhu ji pianzhang yanjiu (汉语财经评论的修辞 结构标注及篇章研究, [Annotation and Analysis of Chinese Financial News Commentaries in terms of Rhetorical Structure]). PhD thesis. Beijing: Communication University of China.Zhou L. J., Li B. Y., Wei, Z. Y., and Wong, K. F. 2014. The CUHK Discourse TreeBank for Chinese: Annotating Explicit Discourse Connectives for the Chinese TreeBank. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation. 942-949.  