Degree Variables by Choose Degree in Izyooni ‘Than’-ClausesAbstractClausal izyooni ‘than’-comparatives in Japanese allow izyooni ‘than’-clauses with their degree positons filled. I consider them a degree version of Internally Headed Relative Clauses (IHRCs). In this preliminary study, I adopt Gross and Landman’s (2012) Choose Role analysis of IHRCs in Japanese and propose a similar functional category Choose Degree, which “re-opens” a degree variable position for “closed” izyooni-clauses. This makes it possible for once closed izyooni-clauses to denote a set of degrees.1 IntroductionJapanese comparatives have recently attracted wide attention in syntax and semantics. Most of the previous works are concerned with yorimo ‘than’- comparatives. However, there is another ‘than’- comparative in Japanese, as illustrated in (1). Comparatives of this type are called izyooni ‘than’- comparatives.Interestingly, izyooni-comparatives have the implication that the given degrees in the embedded clauses are “large” (Hayashishita 2007). For instance, (1) implies that Mary is smart. Consequently, Susan in the matrix clause is considered to be smart as well.(1) Suusan wa [Mary Susan Top Mary -izyooni kasikoi.ga kasikoi] Nom smarttoda@tku.ac.jpthan smart‘Susan is smarter than Mary is.’ (Implication: Mary is smart.)Such implication is not observed in the yorimo counterpart nor in the English equivalent. (2) with yorimo is even ungrammatical.1(2) *Suusan Susanwa [Mary gakasikoi] smartTop Mary Nom -yorimo kasikoi.than smart‘Susan is smarter than Mary is.’(3) Susan is smarter than Mary is. (Not implied: Mary is smart.)For the purpose of our discussion, I will call the degree implication of izyooni-comparatives a “positive implication.” This is because the implication in (1) is intuitively the same as the interpretation of its corresponding positive sentence given in (4), where the null POS operator induces the interpretation that Mary’s degree of smartness is large. The truth conditions of (4) are given in (6).1 As for why (2) is ungrammatical, the arguments are not settled yet. See Snyder et al. (1995), Beck et al. (2004), Kennedy (2009), and Sudo (2014), among others. 
 (4) Mary ga POS kasikoi. Mary Nom smart ‘Maryissmart.’(5)〚POS〛g = PD<d,t>d[P(d)  d>dstandard in c] (6) d[Mary is d-smart  d>dstandard in c]I assume that the positive implication in (1) comes from the POS operator that occupies the degree variable position of kasikoi ‘smart’ in the izyooni-clause.This may sound odd. Normally, such degree positions are abstracted over and occupied by a degree variable d. Therefore, the position cannot be filled by POS. (7) is the LF structure of the English example in (3). The degree variable position of the than-clause is occupied by d2, which is bound by an operator. Note that I assume than in this case is semantically null and indicate it with .(7) Clausal than-comparatives in English3DegP 2<d,t>216 -er<dt<dt,t> 2 Susan is d1-smartthan CP <d,t> 2Op2 6 Mary is d2-smartHowever, notice that Japanese is known to have “closed” relative clauses, namely, Internally Headed Relative Clauses (IHRCs). Consider the example in (8). It intuitively means that Taro brought cookies that Yoko put in the refrigerator. However, the object position of ireteoita ‘put’ in the embedded clause is overtly filled by kukkii ‘cookies.’lit.‘Taro brought [Yoko put at least three cookies in the refrigerator]-NM to the party.’(Yoko put at least three cookies in the refrigerator, and Taro brought them to the party.)(Grosu and Landman 2012)Then, izyooni-clauses with filled degree positions can be captured as a degree version of IHRCs. If so, some analyses of IHRC can apply to closed izyooni-comparatives.The IHRC construction is a popular topic in syntax/semantics studies of Japanese. One such study is Grosu and Landman (2012). They propose a functional category Choose Role (ChR), which “re-opens” an individual variable position for a closed proposition. I propose a similar functional category Choose Degree (ChD), which re-opens a degree variable position for a closed izyooni-clause. This straightforwardly explains how (1) is made possible with the positive implication: The original degree position of kasikoi ‘smart’ is occupied by the POS operator, and abstraction over degree takes place due to the newly created degree variable position by ChD. The LF of (1) is roughly schematized as (9), where d3 is the degree variable position created by ChD.(9) Clausal izyooni-comparatives in Japanese with “closed” izyooni-clauses3DegP 2<d,t>216-er dt<dt,t> 2 Susan is d1-smartizyooni CP<d,t> ‘than’ 2 Op3 6Mary is POS-smart d3The organization of this paper is as follows. Section 2 introduces another example of izyooni- comparatives, in which the degree argument position of the izyooni-clause is filled with an overt degree item. In Section 3, I review Grosu and Landman’s (2012) ChR analysis of IHRCs in Japanese. Then, I propose a similar functional category ChD and show how it accounts for izyooni-comparatives with filled degree positions.(8) Taroo wa [CP Yoko gaTaroo Top Yoko Nom refrigerator in kukkiii o sukunakutomo mittu cookie Acc at.least three.CL ireteoia] noi o paatii ni mottekita. put NM Acc party to broughtreezooko ni
 Section 4 discusses how our analysis of ChD differs from previous studies of izyooni- comparatives.2 Izyooni-Clauses with Filled Degree PositionsAs already mentioned, I assume that the positive implication of (1), repeated below in (10), comes from an invisible POS operator that occupies the degree position of kasikoi ‘smart’ in the izyooni- clause.of (12) can be hard to see because Japanese does not employ overt comparative morphemes like –er in English. I assume there is a null comparative operator in Japanese. The point of (12) is that the length of ‘that paper’ is overtly shown as ‘2 pages more (than a given standard).’ To my knowledge, this the best example of overt degree item in Japanese.Now consider (13). Its izyooni-clause is identical to (12). (13) means that ‘this paper’ in the matrix clause is longer than ‘that paper’ in the embedded clause, which is ‘2 pages more’ than a contextually given standard.(13) Kono peepaa wa [ano peepaa ga this paper Top that paper Nom 2 peeji nagai ]-izyooni nagai.2 page longer than longlit. ‘This paper is longer than [that paper is 2 pages longer (than a given page limit).]’In (13), the standard of comparison for the embedded comparative sentence is implicit, as indicated in parentheses in the translation. If one does not mind a more complex sentence, it is possible to have it overtly. (14) has the extra than phrase ‘than the page limit’ within the izyooni- clause. The length of ‘that paper’ is overtly shown as ‘2 pages more than the page limit.’(14) Kono peepaa wa [ano peepaa ga this paper Top that paper Nom maisuu [seigenn yorimo] 2 peeji nagai ](10) Suusan wa [Mary ga POS Susan Top Mary Nom -izyooni kasikoi.than smart‘Susan is smarter than Mary is.’ (Implication: Mary is smart.)kasikoi] smartIf this assumption is correct, it is predicted that the degree position can be filled by items other than the POS operator, including overt ones. This prediction is borne out. In order to show the relevant data, I will take several steps. It is known that some dimensional adjectives take overt measure phrases. For instance, in the English sentence in (11), 10 pages occupies the degree position of long, and it represents the whole length of the paper.(11) This paper is 10 pages long.Japanese nagai ‘long’ also takes a measure phrase, e.g., 2 peeji ‘two pages,’ as shown in (12). (12) is what will appear in the complement of izyooni shortly.2 page longlit. ‘This paper is longer than [that paper is 2pages longer than the page limit.]’It should be noted that (13) and (14) arecomplicated, and not every speaker is comfortable with them. There are variations in acceptability among speakers. The language consultants in this study judged the sentences acceptable or at least marginally acceptable. The reason for the variation in acceptability is not clear at this point. However, the difference between such izyooni-comparatives and the corresponding English sentences is very clear. In English, than-clauses with filled degree positions are never acceptable.(12) Ano thatpeepaawa 2 peeji nagai.paper‘That paper is 2 pages longer.’Top 2 page long Not: ‘That paper is 2 pages long.’However, (12) does NOT mean ‘That paper is 2 pages long.’ It rather has the comparative interpretation ‘That paper is 2 pages longer (than a given standard).’ It is known that measure phrases for Japanese dimensional adjectives always represent differential degrees. (Snyder et al. 1995, Beck et al. 2007, a.o.) The comparative semanticspage limit than-izyooni nagai. than long
 The problem of (1) and (13) is their meanings should not be calculable due to type mismatch, contrary to our intuitions. In both (1) and (13), the degree position in the izyooni-clause is filled. To be more precise, it is filled in different ways in LF. In (15), the null POS operator occupies the degree argument position. In (16), the embedded izyooni- clause itself is a comparative sentence. Thus, the degree argument position of nagai ‘long’ is bound by DegP within the izyooni-clause. The point is that in both cases, the izyooni-clauses are closed and they denote type <t>.(15) LF of (1): Type mismatchIt requires the first argument to be type <d,t>. However the complement of izyooni denotes <t> in (15) and (16).Despite this type mismatch, (1) and (13) are intuitively well formed. How does this happen? In the next section, I will propose a functional category of ChD that creates an additional degree variable position of type <d>.3 Choose DegreeThe problem we saw in the previous section is that the izyooni-clauses are “closed” and appear to be type <t>. This is a rare phenomenon for clausal than-comparatives. However, it is rather a familiar phenomenon in IHRC constructions in Japanese and other languages.Relative clauses are normally a set of individuals. However, in the IHRC construction in (18), repeated from (8), all the argument positions are filled, including the object position. In other words, the sentence is “closed” and appears to be type <t>.(18) Taroo wa [CP Yoko ga reezooko ni Taroo Top Yoko Nom refrigerator in kukkiii o sukunakutomo mittu cookie Acc at.least three.CL ireteoia] noi o paatii ni mottekita. put NM Acc party to broughtlit. ‘Taro brought [Yoko put at least three cookies in the refrigerator] to the party.’(Yoko put at least three cookies in the refrigerator, and Taro brought them to the party.)(Grosu and Landman 2012)There has been a proposal to solve the problem. Then, let us apply it to izyooni-comparatives.In this section, I will review how Grosu and Landman (2012) analyze (18). They propose a functional category ChR that re-opens an individual degree variable position for the closed IHRC. Then, I propose a similar functional category ChD, which creates a degree variable position for a closed izyooni-clause.3.1 Gross and Landman (2012)Grosu and Landman’s (2012) definition of ChR is given in (19). ChR is a functional category that(16)3<d,t> DegP 221 <t> -er<dt<dt,t> 2 6izyooni <t> Susan is d1-smart ‘than’ 6 Mary is POS-smart LF of (13): Type mismatch3<d,t>DegPi 3<t> 216-er<dt<dt,t> 2 This paper is d1-long izyooni < t >‘than’ 2 <d, t >  DegP 22262 pages -er That paper is d2-longType mismatch is already obvious in (15) and (16). Following the standard assumption of comparative operator (von Stechow 1984 a.o.), I assume that the Japanese null comparative operator -er is type <dt<dt,t>>, as shown in (17).2(17) 〚-er〛g =D1<d,t>D2<d,t>.max(D2) > max (D1)2 I also assume that izyooni is semantically null, and represent it with  in LF structures. 
 takes E, a set of events that is provided by the VP as its sister. The role of ChR is to create an additional individual variable position for a closed sentence. CE is the Role Choice function that chooses an argument of event e and gives an individual variable position x for the chosen argument. Then, operator movement takes place from the newly created positon of x.(19)〚ChR〛g = Exe. E(e)  CE(e) = x(Grosu and Landman 2012: 169)The derivation a hypothetic IHRC proceeds as follows. Suppose  is a denotation of E.(20) a. ChR takes :xe.  (e)  C (e) = xb. (20a) takes a degree variable created by operator movement:e.(e)C (e)=xc. Existential closure of event: e[  (e)  C (e) = x]d. Lambda abstraction over x by the operator movement:x.e[ (e)  C (e) = x](Grosu and Landman 2012: 169–170)For example, the IHRC of (13) is analyzed as follows. CE picks the theme of the putting event, i.e., cookies, and gives an extra variable position x. When operator movement takes place from the position of x to SpecCP, the clause denotes a set of x. This is simply put as in (21), and the denotation of (21) is in (22).(21) [CP Opi [TP Yoko put at least three cookies xi]](22) x.e[PUT(e)  Ag(e)=Yoko  Th(e)*COOKIE  Th(e)3  Into(e)=(FR)  Th(e)=x](Grosu and Landman 2012: 180)Gross and Landman’s (2012) event-based analysis is meant to capture their observation that possible internal heads are limited to “a participant in an eventuality associated with the entire relative clause and does not permit an account of data in which the internal head is more deeply embedded nor of the sensitivity of such embedding to island constraints” (p. 164). For instance, it correctlyrules out (23), where the intended internal head ‘new hypothesis’ does not participate in the praising event of the IHRC. Also, the newly created variable position x is in an island, as shown in the scheme in (24), which causes an island violation.(23) *Mary ga [John ga [atarasii kasetui Mary Nom John Nom new hypothesis o teiansita gakusee] o homete ita noi]Acc proposed student Acc praise had NM no kekkan o sitekisita.Gen defective Acc pointed.out‘John praised the student who proposed a new hypothesis, and Mary pointed out a defect in it.’(24) [CP Opi [TP John praised [DP the student who proposed a new hypothesis xi]]]In the next subsection, I will propose a degree version of ChR.3.2 Creating a Degree Variable PositionWe will alter ChR in order to account for izyooni- comparatives. Our goal is to propose a functional category that re-opens a degree variable position. In doing so, we need to come up with non-event semantics, because many izyooni-comparatives, including (1) and (13), are not eventive.I propose the functional category Choose Degree or ChD in (25) that plays a similar role to that of ChR. ChD takes S, a set of situations, as its sister and creates an additional degree variable position. CS is the Predicate Choice function that chooses a degree predicate in situation s and gives a degree variable position d for the chosen degree predicate.(25)〚ChD〛g = Sds. S(s)  CS(s) = dThe derivation of a hypothetical izyooni-clause is given in (26). The process is essentially the same as we saw in (20). Suppose  is a denotation of S.
 (26) a. ChD takes :ds.  (s)  C (s) = db. (26a) takes a degree variable created by operator movement:s.(s)C (s)=dc. Existential closure of situation: s[  (s)  C (s) = d]d. Lambda abstraction over d by the operator movement:d.s[  (s)  C (s) = d]Let us consider how to analyze (1) and (13). Their LF structures are given in (27) and (28), respectively. Unfortunately, it is not clear at this point exactly where ChD is located. I tentatively place it above the embedded clauses.3 Note that the proposition is now type <s,t> due to the situation semantics. Accordingly, the semantic type of the null comparative operator is <<d,st>,<<d,st>, <s,t>>>. The point is that the complement of each izyooni denotes a set of degrees of type <d,st>. There is no type mismatch any more.(27) LF of (1)3< s,t >s 3<d,st> DegP 2216(28) LF of (13)-er 2 <<d,st>,<<d.st>,<st>>> izyooniChD 6Mary is POS-smarts & CS(s)=d3The truth conditions of the sentences are expected to be roughly as follows in (29) and (30).(29) s[max(d1. Susan is d1-smart in s) > max(d3. d[Mary is d-smart in s  d>dstandard in c]  Mary’s smartness in s = d3)](30) s[max(d1. This paper is d1-long in s) > max(d3. That paper is 2 pages longer than a given page limit in s  The length of that paper in s = d3)]In summary, ChD somehow accounts for the two examples with filled izyooni-clauses. However, the analysis above is still preliminary, and there are many gaps left between the LFs and the truth conditions. Especially, it is not clear at this point exactly how CS(s) provides the degree we want. I will leave these details for further research.4 In Relation to Other AnalysesWhat are the advantages of ChD compared to other analyses of izyooni-comparatives? To my knowledge, there are three previous studies of izyooni-comparatives. In this section, I briefly review them and discuss how our analysis of ChD is different from them.The parallelism between izyooni-comparatives and IHRC constructions has already been pointed out by Oda (2014). Oda attempts to capture the parallelism by applying Shimoyama’s (1999) E-Susan is d1-smarts <d, st >2< t > Op3 2‘than’s3< s,t > 3<d,st>DegPi 3 316-er <<d,st>,<<d.st>,<st>>>2 This paper is d1-longs izyooni <d, st >‘than’ 2 Op3 2ChD 2 <d, st > DegP 22262 pages-er That paper is d2-longs&CS(s)=d3 3 Also, it is not clear exactly where the newly created variables are located in the LF structures. The same question arises for variables created by ChR.
 type analysis of IHRC constructions to izyooni- comparatives. 4 The E-type analysis heavily depends on discourse. Without having much syntactic constraints, it is very flexible and it accounts for many peculiar behaviors of izyooni- comparatives. At the same time, it suffers from the same problem that Shimoyama (2012) does, namely, overgeneration.A big advantage of our ChD analysis over that of Oda (2014) is that it captures island effects in izyooni-clauses observed by Hayashishita (2007). However, the judgments about island effects in izyooni-clauses are not settled yet (Kubota 2012). More careful observation is needed before we reach any conclusion. 5 Another advantage is that our ChD analysis less discourse dependent than the E-type analysis, because the situation variable s serves as an anchor and prevent some overgeneration. However, ChD analysis still depend on discourse. For instance, in (25) CS chooses a degree predicate in situation s. The choice depends on the discourse. At this moment it is not clear how CS behaves when there are more than one degree predicates in its scope.Hayashishita (2007) and Kubota (2012) are based on more traditional semantics of than- comparatives. The parallelism between izyooni- comparatives and IHRCs discussed in this paper is not the scope of their analyses. Their primary goal is to account for the positive implication of izyooni-comparatives.Hayashishita (2007) assumes that the positive implication comes from the null POS operator in izyooni-clauses. This is the same as we assume for (1). Instead of creating an additional variable position, however, Hayashishita assumes that Japanese POS accommodates a differential degree position, from which operator movement takes place. The same thing happens in the matrix clause. Thus, izyooni-comparatives are a comparison of two differential degrees. Based on Hayashishita’s framework, the LF of (1) would be as in (31). Note4 Shimoyama’s (1999) E-type analysis is developed from Hoshi (1995). Shimoyama argues against the raising analysis of IHRCs advocated by Ito (1986) and others.5 Interestingly, there is similar variation in acceptability about the island effect on IHRC constructions in Japanese (Watanabe 1992, Grosu and Landman 2012). This is another parallelism between izyooni-comparatives and IHRC constructions in Japanese.that Hayashishita assumes that izyooni plays the role of –er in English.(31) LF of (1) by Hayashishita3DegP 2<d,t>216 izyooni<dt<dt,t> CP <d,t> Susan is d1-POS smart2Op2 6Mary is d2-POS smartThe truth conditions of (1) would be roughly as in (32). POS is translated as ‘d-degree larger than the contextually given standard in context c.’ Put simply, the positive implication is entailed as part of the truth conditions.(32)max(d1. Susan is d1-smarter than dstanard in c) > max(d2. Mary is d2- smarter than dstanard in c)At least two major issues arise. First, it is not clear how this analysis accounts for cases like (13), where the relevant degree position is filled by an overt item, not by the POS operator. Second, POS normally represents a “vague” degree cross- linguistically (Kennedy 2007). However, Hayashishita’s POS is not vague as it provides a measurable differential degree. This can be quite controversial.Kubota (2012) argues that the positive implication in izyooni-clauses is a presupposition rather than an entailment. He proposes the lexical entry of izyooni for clausal izyooni-comparatives as in (33). Izyooni serves as a comparative operator, and also it requires degree presupposition for izyooni-comparatives. Here, w0 represents the actual world. Therefore, the degree in the embedded clause needs to be larger than a given standard in the real world. If not, it would be a presupposition failure. This brings the effect of the positive implication. Note that he adopts the function-based analysis of gradable adjectives proposed by Kennedy (1999), which treats adjectives as denoting functions from individuals to degrees. (1) would be analyzed as in (34). 
 (33)〚izyooni〛g = xyw.  (y)(w)> (x)(w0) (defined only if  (x)(w0)stnd())(Kubota 2012: 42) (34) smart(Susan)(w) > smart(Mary)(w0)(defined only if smart(Mary)(w0) stnd(smart))A major challenge for Kuroda is how to deal with the data with overtly filled degree positions, like (13).Another challenge comes from Kubota’s assumption that the positive implication is encoded in izyooni-comparatives per se. There is an interesting fact that suggests that the positive implication is closely related to gradable predicates rather than the whole izyooni-construction. Consider the contrast between (35) and (36). (35) does not employ a gradable adjective or exhibit positive implication. However, the positive implication appears once takusanno ‘many’ is added in the matrix clause, as shown in (36). Note that I assume that there is an elided takusanno ‘many’ in the izyooni-clause in (36).(35) Suusan wa [Mary ga tabeta]-izyooni Susan Top Mary Nom ate than orenji o tabeta.orange Acc ate‘Susan ate more oranges than Mary did.’ (Not implied: Mary ate many oranges.)5 Conclusion and Issues for Further ResearchI proposed a lexical category ChD that re-opens a variable degree position for a closed izyooni-clause. This approach successfully captures the parallelism between izyooni-comparatives and IHRCs, namely, closed embedded clauses.6 However, many details remain to be worked out.A question for the bigger picture is the distribution of ChD. It remains to be seen whether or not ChD applies to other degree constructions in Japanese. Grosu and Landman also raise questions regarding cross- and intra-linguistic distribution of ChR. Further comparison between ChR and ChD may give us some insights.Eventually, we may want to integrate ChD into ChR if it is at all possible. ChD is a degree version of ChR; thus, the common threads between ChD and ChR are obvious.AcknowledgmentsI thank the anonymous reviewers of PACLIC29 for their helpful comments. I also thank the anonymous reviewers of JK23 in 2013. They are the ones who recommended me to adopt Grosu and Landman (2012). All remaining errors are my own.ReferencesBeck, Sigrid, Toshiko Oda, and Koji Sugisaki. 2004. Parametric Variation in the Semantics of Comparison: Japanese vs. English. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 13:289–344.Grosu, Alexander and Fred Landman. 2012. A Quantificational Discourse approach to Japanese and Korean Internally Headed Relatives. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 21:159–196.Hayashishita, J.-R. 2007. Izyoo(ni)- and Gurai- Comparatives: Comparison of Deviation in Japanese. Gengo Kenkyu 132:77–109.Heim, Irene and Angelika Kratzer. 1999. Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.Hoshi, Koji. 1995. Structural and Interpretive Aspects of Head-Internal and Head-External Relative6 An anonymous reviewer of PACLIC 29 pointed out that IHRCs are relatively rare in modern Japanese. (S)he also pointed out that correlative –ni turete may undergo a similar analysis. Thus it might be better to treat comparative and correlative sentences in Japanese within the same and independent framework.(36) Suusan wa [Mary gaSusan Top Mary Nom ate than takusanno aorenji o tabeta.many orange Acc ate‘Susan ate more oranges than Mary did.’ (Implication: Mary ate many oranges.)Kubota’s (34) would predict (35) to have degree presupposition, or he would need to provide a different izyooni without degree presupposition.In contrast, other analyses are somewhat compatible with the lack of positive implication in (35). For Hayashishita (2007), there is no gradable predicate that would host his non-vague POS- operator in izyooni-clauses. For Oda (2014), E-type anaphora pragmatically picks degrees without implication. Our ChD simply does not apply to (35) because its izyooni-clause is not closed.__ tabeta]-izyooni 
 Clauses. Doctoral dissertation, University ofRochester.Ito, Junko. 1986. Head-Movement at LF and PF.University of Massachusetts Occasional Papers inLinguistics 11:109–138.Kennedy, Christopher. 1999. Projecting the adjective:The syntax and semantics of gradability andcomparison. New York: Garland Press.Kennedy, Christopher. 2007. Vagueness and grammar: the semantics of relative and absolute gradableadjectives. Linguistics and Philosophy 30:1–45. Kennedy, Christopher. 2009. Modes of comparison.Papers from the 43rd Annual Meeting ofthe Chicago Linguistic Society : 141–165.Kubota, Yusuke. 2012. The Presuppositional Nature of Izyoo(-ni) and Gurai Comparatives: A Note onHayashishita 2007. Gengo Kenkyu 141:33–46.Oda, Toshiko. 2014. E-type Anaphora in Izyooni (than)-comparatives. Paper presented at the JK 23. Shimoyama, Junko. 1999. Internally Headed Relative Clauses in Japanese and E-Type Anaphora. Journalof East Asian Linguistics 8:147–182.Snyder, William, Kenneth Wexler, and Dolon Das.1995. The syntactic representation of degree and quantity: Perspectives from Japanese and child English. Proceedings of 31st West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics: 581–596.Sudo, Yasutada. 2014. Hidden Degree Nominals in Japanese Clausal Comparatives. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 24:1–51.von Stechow, Arnim. 1984. Comparing Semantic Theories of Comparison. Journal of Semantics 3:1– 77.Watanabe, Akira. 1992. Subjacency and S-structure movement of wh-in-situ. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 1: 255–291.