The Invertible Construction in Chinese ABSTRACTThis paper argues that the Invertible Construction (IC) in Chinese is a kind of distributive construction. What appears to be an inversion of word order is best understood as the division of the theme NP by a number of beneficiaries rather than Agents, hence deriving the constraint that ICs invariably require the participating NPs to express quantities. The current study explains the inversion impression of the IC. The effect of this inversion stems from the syntax overtly expressing the theme NP’s wide-scope quantification reading.1 IntroductionThe paper revisits the so-called Invertible Construction in Chinese (henceforth IC); see also (Li & Thompson, 1981:377-395; Li, 1996, 1998; Wee, 2008), and by adopting a LFG account, this paper re-analyzes it in terms of how its semantics properties result in a mapping to syntax that produces its signature inversion effect. Traditionally, the IC, or the Flip-flop construction has been described as having the canonical NP1 V NP2 being inverted to produce NP2 V NP1, presented andexemplified in (1).(1) The Invertible Construction in Chinese (IC)NP1 V NP2a. 八个人吃三碗饭ba-ge-ren chib. 三碗饭吃八个人san-wan-fan chi ba-ge-ren 3-CL-rice eat 8-CL-personThree bowls of rice to eat eight peopleIn (1a, b), the English glosses are provided in the infinitive since the Chinese expression is neutral with regard to the specification of tense and aspect. I shall continue to do so throughout the rest of this paper to maintain a faithful translation to the original language’s grammar rather than the literary content. The sentence in (1a) is canonical and has the word order where the agent NP precedes the patient NP. In contrast, (1b) is sometimes described as “inverted” or “flip-flopped”. The “inverted” form (1b) is more marked than (1a) in that speakers are sometimes stunned by the apparently weird interpretation of the rice being human-eaters before they draw upon the intended reading 1 . It should however be noted that the markedness of (1b) is notNP2 V NP1san-wan-fan3-CL-rice Eight people to eat three bowls of rice 8-CL-person eat  I owe a greater intellectual debt to Lian-Hee Wee than I can express. Thanks also go to Hong Kong Baptist University Phonology Laboratory, the venue for many insightful discussions. Any errors mine.1 Note that any possible metaphorical inferences derived from (1b) are excluded from this paper. The present study is confined to
due to ungrammaticality, as will be evident when compared with the impossibility of (2b) below.(2) Non-invertabilitya. 八个人砸三只碗3-CL-rice intentionally eat 8-CL-person3 bowls of rice intentionally to eat 8 people If the IC is a case of simple inversion, one would expect (3b) to be acceptable given the acceptability of (3a). The unacceptability of (3b) demonstrates that the IC does not involve agenthood, for otherwise the incompatibility with volition wouldbe inexplicable.Another crucial property of the IC is theconstraint on the quantity readings of the participant NPs. The quantity reading of the IC is illustrated in (4) and (5).(4) Quantity reading of NP1a. 张三吃三碗饭Zhangsan chi san-wan-fan Zhangsan eat 3-CL-rice Zhangsan to eat three bowls of riceb. * 三碗饭吃张三* san-wan-fan chi Zhangsan3-CL-rice eat ZhangsanThree bowls of rice to eat Zhangsan (5) Quantity reading of NP2a. 八个人吃饭ba-ge-ren chi fan8-CL-people eat riceEight people to eat rice b. * 饭吃八个人* fan chi ba-ge-ren Rice eat 8-CL-people Rice to eat eight peopleThe acceptability of (4a, 5a) in contrast with (4b, 5b) points to the constraint that the participant NPs in the IC must be quantities and non-referential, a point also noted in Li (1996) and Wee (2008).ba-ge-ren zasan-zhi-wan8-CL-person break 3-CL-bowlsEight people to break three bowls b. *三只碗砸八个人* san-zhi-wan za ba-ge-ren 3-CL-bowls break 8-CL-personReading A: three bowls to break 8 people Reading B: *three bowls to be broken by 8 peopleIn (2b), the only interpretation must be that the bowls are people-breakers though that would be semantically anomalous. Taken together, (1) and (2) suggest that there are certain constraints on the verbs licenses of the IC.As presented in (1), the IC appears to be a curious case of a freer word order in a language like Chinese that has no overt case marking. The label “IC” refers to both orders i.e., NP1 V NP2 (canonical order) and NP2 V NP1 (flip-flop order). It shall become clearer in Sections 3 and 4 that both orders in the IC have a distributive reading. A fuller picture emerges when one considers additional data as given in (3) where we can see the incompatibility of the IC with expressions of volition.(3) Incompatibility of the IC with volition a. 八个人故意吃三碗饭ba-ge-ren guyi chi san-wan-fan(cf. (1a)) 8-CL-person intentionally eat 3-CL-rice8 people intentionally to eat three bowls of rice b. * 三碗饭故意吃八个人* san-wan-fan guyi chi ba-ge-ren (cf. (1b)) the grammatical content of data. 
A third important observation about the IC is the stability of valence. As may be seen with how the IC interacts with monadic or triadic verbs. As shown in (6), gei “give” is triadic; san-ge- xiaofendui “three teams” is the SOURCE/ AGENT, wu-ge-shequ “five communities” is the GOAL/ BENEFICIARY, and shi-tai-dianshiji “ten TVs” the THEME.(6) The IC with triadic verbs:i. 三个小分队给五个社区十台电视机san-ge-xiaofendui gei wu-ge-shequ shi-tai- dianshiji3-CL-team give 5-CL-community 10-CL-TV Three teams to give ten TVs to five communitiesTen TVs and five communities to be given to three teamsvi. 十台电视机给五个社区 shi-tai-dianshiji gei wu-ge-shequ 10-CL-TV give 5-CL-community Ten TVs to give five communitiesvii. 五个社区给三个小分队wu-ge-shequ gei san-ge-xiaofendui 5-CL-community give 3-CL-teamFive communities to give three teamsAs shown in the acceptability of (6vi, vii) but the marginality of (6ii-iv) and the unacceptability of (6v), the IC appears to prefer the expression of two NPs. In (7), we see how an otherwise monadic verb triggers the overt expression of another NP.(7) The IC with monadic verbsi. 八个人哭了ba-ge-ren ku le8-CL-people cry ASP-LEEight people cried ii. * 八个人哭* ba-ge-ren ku 8-CL-people cry Eight people to cryiii.* 三口棺材哭* san-kou-guancai ku3-CL-coffin cryThree coffins to cry iv. 八个人哭三口棺材ba-ge-ren ku san-kou-guancai8-CL-people cry 3-CL-coffinEight people to cry beside three coffins v. 三口棺材哭八个人san-kou-guancai ku ba-ge-ren3-CL-coffin cry 8-CL-people Three coffins to cry eight peopleii. ? ?iii.? ?iv.? ?v.* *五个社区给三个小分队十台电视机wu-ge-shequ gei san-ge-xiaofendui shi-tai- dianshiji5-CL-community give 3-CL-team 10-CL-TVTen TVs to be given to three teams by five communities 十台电视机给五个社区三个小分队shi-tai-dianshiji gei wu-ge-shequ san-ge- xiaofendui10-CL-TV give 5-CL-community 3-CL-team Ten TVs to be given to five communities and three teams五个社区三个小分队给十台电视机wu-ge-shequ san-ge-xiaofendui gei shi-tai- dianshiji5-CL-community 3-CL-team give 10-CL-TV Five communities and three teams to be given ten TVs十台电视机五个社区给三个小分队shi-tai-dianshiji wu-ge-shequ gei san-ge- xiaofendui10-CL-TV 5-CL-community give 3-CL-team
To fully apprehend the significance of (7), it should be noted that exactly two NPs are needed. The unacceptability of (7ii, iii), and the acceptability of (7iv, v) illustrate that a second participant role has to be introduced to generate a well-formed IC. This set of examples as shown in (6) and (7) including triadic verbs and monadic verbs suggests the dyadic valence of the IC.In view of above observation and discussion, any account of the IC must at least take into consideration the following characteristics:(8) Central characteristics of the ICi. The license in ordering the theme/patientNPs before the Agent NPs (i.e. theimpression of inversion);ii. The unavailability of the IC with certainverbsiii. The incompatibility of the IC with volitioniv. The quantity readings of the participantNPsv. The dyadic valence of the ICThis paper argues that capturing all the aboveaspects of the IC is best done by understanding the IC as a kind of distributive construction that expresses the divisibility of the theme NP. This captures under a single analytical umbrella the apparently unrelated set of puzzles involving the inverted word order, the incompatibility with volition, as well as the dyadicity of the construction without resorting to very complex structures that might be necessary in a purely syntactic account. The analysis is fleshed out using the conceptualframework of Mohanan’s (1994) multi-dimensional syntax, where interface between semantics and syntax can be explicitly expressed and elaborated in the ensuing sections.2 The Dimensions of SyntaxRegardless of the theoretical framework to which one may subscribe, any syntactic theory must relate (a) the grouping of words, i.e. the constituencies of a given word string; (b) the grammatical function of substrings of words in a sentence, i.e. subjecthood and objecthood against which case and concord are manifest; (c) the valence of predicates, e.g. the transitivity of the main verbs; and (d) the semantic roles played by the participants expressed in the sentence, i.e. thematic roles.In Government and Binding frameworks, these four “dimensions” of syntax are captured via the movement of syntactic constituents, the binding of traces and the assignment of various properties projected from lexical and/or functional heads (Haegeman, 1991). Subsequent frameworks such as Minimalism adopt essentially the same strategy (Radford, 1997). Lexical-Functional Grammar (Bresnan, 1982) relates various dimensions in (a-d) by mapping across different levels. To further exemplify, (9) represents the internal constituent structure of a sentence in Chinese:(9) 八个人吃三碗饭Ba-ge-ren chi san-wan fan8-CL-people eat 3-CL-riceEight people to eat three bowls of rich
 With reference to their grammatical functions, eight people/ba-CL-ren is the SUBJECT of the sentence, eat/chi the PREDICATE, three bowls of rice/ san-CL-fan the OBJECT. Further, one may note that the verb is dyadic/transitive, which means that it requires two arguments. While there are lots ofverbs that may have two arguments, eat/chi requires one of its arguments to play the thematic role of AGENT and the other PATIENT (cf. write, which would require an AGENT and a THEME). Following Mohanan (1984), all this information can be pictorially presented as in (11).Figure (10). Constituent structure of (9) The representation in (11) is an extension of (10); it captures the various aspects of the (9) sentence in terms of the different syntactic dimensions. The C- Str provides the constituencies of the word string. Their grammatical roles are expressed in F-Str. These grammatical roles in turn fulfill the valence requirements of the predicate as expressed in the Arg-Str. The Sem-Str informs us that the sentence involves two participants, an actor and a patient, as related by the semantic predicate ACT and its two participants. In (11), the first participant “x” is Agent/actor, which is associated with the firstargument slot, the subject grammatical role and the constituent NP. The mapping relations are similarly read for the second semantic participant “y”.Encoding thematic information requires a more elaborate Sem-Str than simply saying a NP is assigned a particular thematic role. Mohanan’s (1994) conception of the Sem-Str is an adaptation of Dowty’s (1970) formalization of Vendler’s (1957) verb classification. Vendler recognizes four classes of verbs, (a) state, (b) activity, (c) achievement, and (d) accomplishment, adapted and formalized in Dowty (1979: 159-163) as in Figure (12) below.Figure (11). A multi-dimensional revision of (10)
From these, the basic types of thematic roles may be inferred in sequence as illustrated below in (12).Figure (12). Event structures (Dowty, 1979: 159-163) The event structures shall play crucial roles in providing a possible handle on the puzzles related to the IC.3 The Impression of “Inversion”In this section, analysis is focused on spelling out an unexpected observation—why the license of ordering the patient/ theme NP before Agent NP does not incur semantics change. Mohanan’s (1994) multidimensional mapping theory provides the main approach to spell out the inversion impression of the IC. Multi-dimensional syntax of the IC allows two different word orders to be showcased simultaneously under one semantic umbrella.3.1 Data Observation(i). the default declarative sentence四个人吃(了)三碗饭Si-ge-ren chi (LE) san-wan-fan4-CL-people eat (ASP-LE) 3-CL-riceFour people have eaten three bowls of rice (ii). the canonical IC四个人吃三碗饭Si-ge-ren chi san-wan-fan4-CL-people eat 3-CL-riceThree bowls of rice to eat four people (iii). the flip-flopped IC三碗饭吃四个人San-wan-fan chi si-ge-ren3-CL-rice eat 4-CL-peopleThree bowls of rice to eat four peopleIt is well-established that prerequisites (i) (ii) (iii)are all well-formed data; (ii) and (iii) embrace the same semantics, despite of word order difference. Given that (i) is perfect with volition; and (ii) seems to be doable with volition, (iii) is supposed to be compatible with volition as well. Unexpectedly, (iii) can never go together with volition.3.2 “Distributiveness” HypothesisThe current study hypothesizes that (ii) is static and intrinsically incompatible with volition. Such hypothesis can differ (ii) from (i), and can explain why (iii) is never doable with volition. This hypothesis also implies that there seems to be a complex predicate embodied in the semantics level, offering the license of word order inversion. For otherwise syntactic movement incurs semantics change. Based on the analysis in Section 2 with
reference to the dimensions of syntax, the hypothesis can be elaborated below2: In (13) Sem-Str captures the intended reading, and Arg-Str the syntactic positions. Note that yi and yj is co-indexed and therefore co-referent. Such a mapping to be licensed is that all semantic participants are still being mapped to Arg-Str because yi and yj are co-referent. EVR1 corresponds to regular declarative reading. EVR2 has two options of mapping so that y may precede or follow x, hence the availability of two word orders for the IC reading.Uniform theta assignment hypothesis (UTAH) (Baker, 1997) points out that the highest semantic participant is correspondent to the first argument in the argument structure level. UTAH concerns therelationship between syntactic word order and semantic hierarchy. UTAH negates possibilities of cross mapping in the IC. Based on UTAH theory, mapping principles for the IC is fleshed out accordingly:Principle i. All semantic participants must map to the Arg-Str levelPrinciple ii. All Arg-Str positions must be filled (at least for Chinese data)Principle iii. Order of arguments in Arg-Str corresponds to the semantic prominence 3 of participantsFigure (13). Multi-dimensions of the IC Figure (14). Extension of (13): multi-dimensional mapping of the IC2 x refers to Agent; y refers to theme/ patient3 Definition of semantic prominence: x is semantically moreprominent than iff x c- commands y in the Sem-Str level. 
Canonical IC and flip-flopped IC can be showcased in Figure (14) simultaneously under one static proposition. The pair of black dashed lines elaborates the apparent inversion impression of the fil-flop IC. The pair of black solid line pictorializes the canonical IC.The distribution of y under different predicates indicates a core role y is implicitly playing—dividend. Such distributive mapping explains why y’s movement is so flexible. To make an atelic, stative and non-punctual division formula calculates well, only two predictors are required, namely, divisor and dividend. The word order no longer matters significantly. As for the slight differences of calculation results caused by inversion, they are quite reasonable and within the expectation scope I hold for a calculation formula.4 Predictions of Distributiveness HypothesisTill now the hypothesized role of y as dividend works well in that it explains the puzzles I put forward in the beginning; and predicts several characteristics of the IC:(i) the dyadic valence of the IC;(ii) the quantity reading of the IC;(iii) the incompatibility of the IC withvolition(iv) the unavailability of the IC with certainverbs.The distributiveness feature of IC accounts for (i) and (ii). Two and only two quantity-denoted elements (NPs) are adequate and necessary to constitute a divisor-dividend formula. Freer word order disallows the co-occurrence of the IC and volition, i.e., constraint (iii). For otherwise the divisor/dividend roles played by the two NPs will be obfuscated; and the calculation formula will no longer be valid. Furthermore, it is well established that numeral NPs that do not bear referentiality are non-volitional (Li, 1998; Wee, 2001). In line with previous argumentations, I maintain that in Mandarin, numeral NPs that do not bear referentiality are non-volitional. The IC is therefore incompatible with volition. To maintain the divisor- dividend relationship, predicates that encode directionality of the action are forbidden to undergo inversion. Otherwise meanings change. This accounts for (iv).5 Concluding RemarksThis paper has adopted a Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG) account and explored the multi- dimensions of the semantics and syntax of the IC and solved the puzzles it sought to solve. The IC is essentially a kind of distributive construction, i.e., calculation formula, with dyadic valences, namely, the dividend and the divisor. This divisibility nature of the IC determines that the participant roles must be quantity denoting.
REFERENCESBaker, M. (1997) Thematic roles and syntacticand number phrases. Linguistic Inquiry 29: 693-702.Li, Charles N. and S. Thompson (1981) MandarinChinese: A Functional Reference Grammar. Berkeley, California: University of California Press.Mohanan, T. (1994) Arguments in Hindi. Stanford: CSLI Publications.Radford, A. (1997) Syntax: A minimalist introduction. London: Cambridge University Press.Van Valin, D. and Randy L. (1997) syntax: structure, meaning and function UK: Cambridge Press. Vendler, Z. (1957) Verbs and Times. ThePhilosophical Review. 66:143-160.Wee, L.H. (2008) “The rice ate four people” andsuch Flip-Flops. The Chinese Language Teachers Association 43: 33-58.ABBREVIATIONS & SYMBOLS IN THE CONTENTActivity: ACTArgument structure: Arg-StrASP: aspect markerClassifier(s): CLDeterminer: DetEvent: EVGrammatical Constituent Structure: C-Str Grammatical Function Structure: F-Str Le: LE (aspectual marker)Number: NumNumeral phrase: NumPSemantic Structure: Sem-Str Syntactically unacceptable: * Semantically odd: ?structure, Haegeman, Grammar., 73-137, Publishers.L.(ed.), KluwerElements ofAcademicBresnan, J. (1982) The mental representation of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge, Mass: the MIT Press.Bresnan, J. (2001) Lexical-Functional Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.Chomsky, N. (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.Dowty, D. (1979) Word Meaning and Montague grammar—the Semantics of Verbs and Times in Generative Semantics and in Montague’s PTQ. Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company.Dowty, D. (1991) Thematic Proto-Roles and Argument Selection. Language. 67: 547-619. Haegeman, L. (1991) Introduction to Governmentand Binding Theory. Oxford: BlackwellPublishers.Huang, C-R and Lin, F-W (1992) Composite EventStructure and Complex Predicates: A Template- based Approach to Argument Selection. In Proceedings of the Third Annual Meeting of the Formal Linguistics Society of Mid-America, Indiana University Linguistics Club, Bloomington, Indiana, pp.90-108.Kiparsky, P. (1997) Remarks on Denominal Verbs. In Alex Alsina, J. Bresnan and P. Sells (eds.), Argument Structure. Stanford: CSLILi, A. Y-H. (1996) A Number Projection. Unpublished manuscript, University ofSouthern California at Los Angeles.Li, A. Y-H. (1998) Argument determiner phrases